# Constants and Variables

## Type Safety and Type Inference

Swift is a type-safe language. A type safe language encourages you to be clear about the types of values your code can work with. If part of your code requires a String, you can’t pass it an Int by mistake.

Because Swift is type safe, it performs type checks when compiling your code and flags any mismatched types as errors.

Because of this, Swift requires far fewer type declarations than languages such as *C* or *Objective-C*. Constants and variables are still explicitly typed, but much of the work of specifying their type is done for you.

## Declaring Constants and Variables

Constants and variables associate a name (such as *maximumNumberOfLoginAttempts* or *welcomeMessage*) with a value of a particular type (such as the number *10* or the string "*Hello*"). The value of a constant can’t be changed once it’s set, whereas a variable can be set to a different value in the future.

**Constants** and **variables** must be declared before they’re used. You declare constants with the `let` keyword and variables with the `var` keyword.

```swift
let maximumNumberOfLoginAttempts = 10
var currentLoginAttempt = 0
var x = 0.0, y = 0.0, z = 0.0
```

Constant and variable names can contain almost any character, including Unicode characters

## Type Annotations

You can provide a type annotation when you declare a constant or variable, to be clear about the kind of values the constant or variable can store, but it’s rare that you need to write type annotations in practice.

```swift
var welcomeMessage: String
var red, green, blue: Double
```

## Kind of Types

In Swift, there are two kinds of types: *named types* and *compound types*.

* A **named type** is a type that can be given a particular name when it’s defined. Named types include *classes*, *structures*, *enumerations*, and *protocols*.
* A **compound type** is a type without a name, defined in the Swift language itself. There are two compound types: *function* types and *tuple* types. A compound type may contain named types and other compound types.

## Type Aliases

Type aliases define an alternative name for an existing type. You define type aliases with the `typealias` keyword.

Type aliases are useful when you want to refer to an existing type by a name that is contextually more appropriate, such as when working with data of a specific size from an external source:

```swift
typealias AudioSample = UInt16
```

Once you define a type alias, you can use the alias anywhere you might use the original name:

```swift
var maxAmplitudeFound = AudioSample.min //  == UInt16.min
// maxAmplitudeFound is now 0
```
