# Objectives

- **Be able to identify correct and incorrect method declarations.** A sample method signature is public static void method(String... args) throws Exception {}.
- **Identify when a method or field is accessible.** Recognize when a method or field is accessed when the access modifer (private, protected, public, or default access) does not allow it.
- **Recognize valid and invalid uses of static imports.** Static imports import static members. They are written as import static, not static import. Make sure they are importing static methods or variables rather than classnames.
- **State the output of code involving methods.** Identify when to call static rather than instance methods based on whether the classname or object comes before the method.
- **Recognize the correct overloaded method**. Exact matches are used first, followed by wider primitives, followed by autoboxing, followed by varargs. Assigning new values to method parameters does not change the caller, but calling methods on them does.
- **Evaluate code involving constructors.** Constructors can call other constructors by calling this() as the first line of the constructor. Recognize when the default constructor is provided. Remember the order of initialization is the superclass, static variables/initializers, instance variables/initializers, and the constructor.
- **Be able to recognize when a class is properly encapsulated.** Look for private instance variables and public getters and setters when identifying encapsulation.
- **Write simple lambda expressions.** Look for the presence or absence of optional elements in lambda code. Parameter types are optional. Braces and the return keyword are optional when the body is a single statement. Parentheses are optional when only one parameter is specifed and the type is implicit. The Predicate interface is commonly used with lambdas because it declares a single method called test(), which takes one parameter.