# Program Structure

C# programs can consist of one or more source files. Each file can contain zero or more namespaces. A namespace can contain types such as classes, structs, interfaces, enumerations, and delegates, in addition to other namespaces.

C# permits the source text of a program to be stored in several source files. When a multi-file C# program is compiled, all of the source files are processed together, and the source files can freely reference each other—conceptually, it is as if all the source files were concatenated into one large file before being processed.

When C# programs are compiled, they are physically packaged into assemblies. Assemblies contain executable code in the form of Intermediate Language (IL) instructions, and symbolic information in the form of metadata. Before it is executed, the IL code in an assembly is automatically converted to processor-specific code by the Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler of .NET Common Language Runtime.

```CSharp
// A skeleton of a C# program
using System;
namespace YourNamespace
{
    class YourClass
    {
    }

    struct YourStruct
    {
    }

    interface IYourInterface
    {
    }

    delegate int YourDelegate();

    enum YourEnum
    {
    }

    namespace YourNestedNamespace
    {
        struct YourStruct
        {
        }
    }

    class YourMainClass
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            //Your program starts here...
        }
    }
}
```

## Main()

+ The Main method is the entry point of an executable program; it is where the program control starts and ends.
+ Main is declared inside a class or struct. Main must be static and it need not be public. The enclosing class or struct is not required to be static.
+ Main can either have a void, int, or, starting with C# 7.1, Task, or `Task<int>` return type.
+ If and only if Main returns a `Task` or `Task<int>`, the declaration of Main may include the async modifier. Note that this specifically excludes an async void Main method.
+ The Main method can be declared with or without a string[] parameter that contains command-line arguments. When using Visual Studio to create Windows applications, you can add the parameter manually or else use the Environment class to obtain the command-line arguments. Parameters are read as zero-indexed command-line arguments. Unlike C and C++, the name of the program is not treated as the first command-line argument.