# RXSwift: Schedulers

> [Source](https://engineering.upgrad.com/introduction-to-reactive-programming-using-rxswift-a949b023400d)

Schedulers abstract away the mechanism for performing work in RxSwift. In iOS we have different mechanisms like current thread, main queue, dispatch queues, operation queues etc. which helps us to achieve concurrency or perform some task. `Schedulers` is basically a wrapper on these mechanisms to perform the work in RxSwift.

There are two main operators that work with schedulers, `observeOn` and `subscribeOn`.

## ObserveOn

This operator is used if want to observe the result of some computation on different thread or perform some task on different thread. If we don’t use `observeOn` then the task will be performed on the current thread. Most of the times we will be using `observeOn` to perform the tasks in RxSwift.

Below is the example on how to use observeOn:

```swift
import Foundation
import RxSwift

let observable = Observable<Int>.of(1, 2, 3)
let disposeBag = DisposeBag()
let backgroundScheduler = ConcurrentDispatchQueueScheduler(qos: .default)

observable
    .observeOn(backgroundScheduler)
    .filter { $0 > 1 }
    .observeOn(MainScheduler.instance)
    .subscribe(onNext: { (value) in
        print("next: \(value)")
    }).disposed(by: disposeBag)
```

## SubscribeOn

This method is used when we want to create observable sequence on some specific scheduler. When we use `subscribeOn` the subscription will happen on the specified scheduler given in the `subscribeOn` method so that it will starts to create observable sequence and also call dispose on this specific scheduler.

In case `subscribeOn` isn't explicitly specified, the subscribe closure (closure passed to `Observable.create`) will be called on the same thread/scheduler on which `subscribe(onNext:)` or subscribe is called.

In case `subscribeOn` isn't explicitly specified, the dispose method will be called on the same thread/scheduler that initiated disposing.

we can simply change the loadPost example above by using `subscribeOn` and `observeOn` like below:

```swift
func getTodoList() {
  let postsObservable:Observable<[String]> = NetworkService.loadTodoList()
  postsObservable
    .subscribeOn(ConcurrentDispatchQueueScheduler(qos: .default))
    .observeOn(MainScheduler.instance)
    .subscribe(onNext: { todoList in
       print("TodoList: \(todoList)")
    }, onError: { (error) in
       print(error.localizedDescription)
    }).disposed(by: disposeBag)
}
```