# Streams

A stream is an ordered sequence of bytes, which is send from one application or input device to another application or output device. These bytes are written and read one after the other and always arrive in the same **order** as they were sent. Streams are an abstraction of a data communication channel that connects two devices or applications.

The `Stream` class is an abstract class that is used in the .NET Framework for I/O operations.

## Basic operations with Streams

You can do the following operations with streams:

**Creation** To create or open a stream means to connect the stream to a data source, a mechanism for data transfer or another stream. For example, when we have a file stream, then we pass the file name and the file mode in which it is to be opened.

**Reading** Reading means extracting data from the stream. Reading is always performed **sequentially** from the current position of the stream. Reading is a blocking operation, and if the other party has not sent data while we are trying to read or the sent data has not yet arrived, there may occur a delay – a few milliseconds to hours, days or greater.

**Writing** Writing means sending data to the stream in a specific way. The writing is performed from the current position of the stream. Writing may be a potentially blocking operation, before the data is sent on its way.

**Positioning** Positioning or seeking in the stream means to move the current position of the stream. Moving is done according to the current position, where we can position according to the current position, beginning of the stream, or the end of the stream. Moving can be done only in streams that support positioning.

**Closing/flushing** To close or disconnect a stream means to complete the work with the stream and releases the occupied resources. Closing must take place as soon as possible after the stream has served its purpose, because a resource opened by a user, usually cannot be used by other users.

## Stream Adapters

A Stream deals only in bytes; to read or write data types such as strings, integers, or XML elements, you must plug in an adapter. Here’s what the Framework provides:

- Text adapters (for string and character data)
  - TextReader, TextWriter
  - StreamReader, StreamWriter
  - StringReader, StringWriter
- Binary adapters (for primitive types such as int, bool, string, and float)
  - BinaryReader, BinaryWriter
- XML adapters (covered in Chapter 11)
  - XmlReader, XmlWriter