# Assemblies

When building your applications, you work with source code files and projects, but this is not the way your application is deployed. The C# compiler takes your source code and produces assemblies. An assembly is a collection of types and resources that are built to work together and form a logical unit of functionality.

>An assembly is a compiled unit of code that contains metadata.

In general, it is the smallest unit of deployment of a .net application and it can be a `.dll`, `.exe` or `winmd` (a WinRT library that contains only metadata and no IL code).

## Advantages

* Assemblies are completely self-contained; Because assemblies contain information about content, versioning, and dependencies, the applications you create with C# do not rely on Windows registry values to function properly.
* Assemblies reduce .dll conflicts and make your applications more reliable and easier to deploy. In many cases, you can install a .NET-based application simply by copying its files to the target computer.
* Another important aspect is that an assembly is language-neutral. You can write some C# code, compile it to an assembly, and then use the assembly directly from other .NET languages such as F# or Visual Basic.

## What’s in an Assembly

An assembly contains four categories of information:

1. **An assembly manifest**: Provides information to the .NET runtime, such as the assembly’s name, version, requested permissions, and other assemblies that it references.
   1. Is the only mandatory item in an assembly
   2. Describes the assemby to the managed hosting enviroment.
   3. Serves as a directory to the contents of the assembly
   4. Makes the assembly self-describing
2. **An application manifest**: Provides information to the operating system, such as how the assembly should be deployed and whether administrative elevation is required.
3. **Compiled types**: The compiled IL code and metadata of the types defined within the assembly.
4. **Resources**: Other data embedded within the assembly, such as images and localizable text

## Assembly manifest

Within every assembly, there is an assembly manifest. The assembly manifest contains the following:

* The assembly's name and version.
* A **file table** describing all the other files that make up the assembly, for example, any other assemblies you created that your .exe or .dll file relies on, or even bitmap or Readme files.
* An **assembly reference list**, which is a list of all external dependencies .dlls or other files your application needs that may have been created by someone else. Assembly references contain references to both global and private objects.

## Uses of Assembly

Assembly has many uses; some of the important uses of assembly are given below:

1. Assembly allows **component-based** development, which means multiple assemblies can reuse each other’s types, methods, and classes to build a software product.
2. Assemblies help in **versioning**, which is useful to archive previously built assemblies.
3. Assembly enables **security**, which can manage by specifying the level of trust for code from a particular site or zone.
4. Assembly supports **culture and language**, so when an application is deployed it can display results according to a specific culture or language.

## Strong-Named Assemblies

The CLR supports two different types of assemblies: **strong-named** assemblies and **regular** assemblies.

* A *regular* assembly is what Visual Studio generates for you by default. It’s structurally identical to a strong-named assembly. They both contain metadata, header, manifest, and all the types that are in your assembly.
* A *strong-named* assembly is signed with a public/private key pair that uniquely identifies the publisher of the assembly and the content of the assembly.

## Types of Assembly

Assembly is typically divided into two types:

1. **Private** Assembly
2. **Public** Assembly

### Private Assembly

A private assembly (.dll or .exe) can be used by only a single application. Generally private assembly is found in the application root folder.
If another application tries to refer a private assembly, it must used store a copy of that private assembly in its root directory, otherwise the application won't be able to deploy succussfully.

### Public/Shared Aseembly

A public assembly (.dll or .exe) can be used by multiple applications at a time. It is also known as a shared assembly, which is stored in **Global Assembly Cache** (GAC). This shared assembly also known as a strong name assembly.
Generally, when an application is deploying, it doesn't need a public assembly to be referenced in the root folder of the application.

## Specifying assembly attributes

An application manifest is an XML file that communicates information about the assembly to the operating system. An application manifest, if present, is read and processed before the .NET-managed hosting environment loads the assembly—and can influence how the operating system launches an application’s process.

You can control much of the manifest’s content with assembly attributes. For example:

```csharp
// Set version number for the assembly.
[assembly:AssemblyVersionAttribute("4.3.2.1")]
// Set culture as German.
[assembly:AssemblyCultureAttribute("de")]

[assembly:AssemblyKeyFileAttribute("myKey.snk")]
```

These declarations are usually all defined in one file in your project. Visual Studio automatically creates a file called `AssemblyInfo.cs` in the Properties folder with every new C# project for this purpose, prepopulated with a default set of assembly attributes that provide a starting point for further customization.