# Global Assembly Cache (GAC)

If you intend to share an assembly among several applications, you can install it into the global assembly cache. Each computer where the common language runtime is installed has this machine-wide code cache. The global assembly cache stores assemblies specifically designated to be shared by several applications on the computer. An assembly must have a strong name to be installed in the global assembly cache.

You should share assemblies by installing them into the global assembly cache only when necessary. As a general guideline, keep assembly dependencies private and locate assemblies in the application directory unless sharing an assembly is explicitly required.

## GAC Location

Starting with the .NET Framework 4, the default location for the Global Assembly Cache is `%windir%\Microsoft.NET\assembly`. In earlier versions of the .NET Framework, the default location is `%windir%\assembly`.

## Advantages

There are several reasons why you might want to install an assembly into the global assembly cache:

* Shared location.
    Assemblies that should be used by applications can be put in the global assembly cache. For example, if all applications should use an assembly located in the global assembly cache, a version policy statement can be added to the Machine.config file that redirects references to the assembly.
* File security.
    Administrators often protect the systemroot directory using an Access Control List (ACL) to control write and execute access. Because the global assembly cache is installed in the systemroot directory, it inherits that directory's ACL. It is recommended that only users with Administrator privileges be allowed to delete files from the global assembly cache.
* Side-by-side versioning.
    Multiple copies of assemblies with the same name but different version information can be maintained in the global assembly cache.
* Additional search location.
    The common language runtime checks the global assembly cache for an assembly that matches the assembly request before probing or using the codebase information in a configuration file.

### When not to deploy to GAC

There are scenarios where you explicitly do not want to install an assembly into the GAC.

* XCOPY or ClickOnce deployment cannot be used because administrative actions are required to install
* Updating GAC assemblies require administrative privileges
* Testing can become more difficult
* Versioning and side-by-side execution becomes more complex

## Deploying assemblies to GAC

There are two ways to deploy an assembly into the Global Assembly Cache:

* For production scenarios use an installer designed to work with the Global Assembly Cache (such as the *Windows installler 2.0*). This is the preferred option for installing assemblies into the Global Assembly Cache.
* In a development scenario use a developer tool called the Global Assembly Cache tool (`Gacutil.exe`), provided by the Windows Software Development Kit (SDK).

### Using the Gacutil

You can view the content of your GAC by running the following command from a developer command prompt:

```csharp
// This returns a list of all the assemblies that are installed in the GAC:
gacutil -l
gacutil /l // also valid
```

```csharp
// Installing an assembly in the GAC can be done with the following command:
gacutil –i myAssembly.dll
gacutil /i myAssembly.dll // also valid
```

```csharp
// You can also remove an assembly from the GAC:
gacutil –u myAssembly //no extension
gacutil /u myAssembly // also valid
```

### Version Information

Each assembly has two distinct ways of expressing version information:

1. The assembly's version number, which, together with the assembly name and culture information, is part of the assembly's identity. This number is used by the runtime to enforce version policy and plays a key part in the type resolution process at run time.
2. An informational version, which is a string that represents additional version information included for informational purposes only.

## Assembly Versioning

In stark contrast with how DLLs worked before the .NET Framework, an assembly has a version number. Inside the assembly manifest, the assembly records its own version number and the version numbers of all the assemblies that it references.

Each assembly has a version number that has the following format:

```csharp
{Major Version}.{Minor Version}.{Build Number}.{Revision}
```

* Major: breaking changes
* Minor: small changes in existing features
* Build number: auto incremented
* Revision: patches

All this is saved in the `AssemblyInfo.cs` with a pair of numbers:

* **AssemblyVersion**: incremented manually when you deploy to production.
* **AssemblyFileVersion**: incremented with every build by your build server.

After a deployment you end up with multiple versions of your assemblies within the GAC (side-by-side hosting). To match the right assembly you can use:

* Application configuration files: you can define extra location to find your assemblies. If the location are out of the scope of your app, the assemblies would need to be strongly named.
* Publisher policies: that are deployed to the GAC so the CLR knows what to bind.
* Machine configuration

## GAC and Versioning: Side by side execution

Changing an assembly’s `AssemblyVersion` gives it a brand-new identity. To illustrate, let’s say you write a utils assembly, version it *“1.0.0.0”*, strongly name it, and then install it in the GAC. Then suppose later you add some new features, change the version to *“1.0.0.1”*, recompile it, and reinstall it into the GAC. Instead of overwriting the original assembly, the GAC now holds both versions. This means:

* You can choose which version to reference when compiling another application that uses utils.
* Any application previously compiled to reference utils 1.0.0.0 will continue to do so.

This is called *side-by-side* execution. Side-by-side execution prevents the *“DLL hell”* that can otherwise occur when a shared assembly is unilaterally updated: applications designed for the older version might unexpectedly break.

## WinMD

With Win8, a new WinRT (runtime) was introduced written in C++, without managed environment, no CLR, no JIT compiler. There was no metadata which is necessary to create mapping between native components and other languages. To make this work Microsoft came up with a new file type called Windows Metadata (WinMD). These files (called Windows Runtime component in VS or .winmd) help you to create pieces of code that can be called from different languages such as Javascript or C#. You only need to follow these restrictions:

* Fields, parameters and return values of all the public types and members must be Windows Runtime types
* A public class or interface cannot do:
  * be generic
  * implement an interface that is not a Windows Runtime interface
  * Derive from types that are not inside the Windows Runtime
* Public classes must be sealed
* Public structures can have only public fields which must be value types or strings
* All public types must have a root namespace that matches the assembly name and does not start with Windows.