# Promises

Promises are objects that represent the eventual outcome of an asynchronous operation.

A Promise object can be in one of three states:

- **Pending**: The initial state, the operation has not completed yet.
- **Fulfilled**: The operation has completed successfully and the promise now has a resolved value.
- **Rejected**: The operation has failed and the promise has an Error of some kind.

We refer to a promise as **settled** if it is no longer pending, it is either **fulfilled** or **rejected**.

## Constructing a Promise

```javascript
let promise = new Promise(function (resolve, reject) {
  // code to perform a job
});
```

The function passed to `new Promise` is called the **executor**. When `new Promise` is created, the executor runs automatically and attempts to perform a job. We should implement a `resolve function` with the successful result of the job as argument or a `reject function` with the error.

Let’s look at an example executor function in a Promise constructor:

```javascript
const executorFunction = (resolve, reject) => {
  if (someCondition) {
    resolve("I resolved!");
  } else {
    reject("I rejected!");
  }
};
const myFirstPromise = new Promise(executorFunction);
```

Short Version:

```javascript
const myFirstPromise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
  if (someCondition) {
    resolve("I resolved!");
  } else {
    reject("I rejected!");
  }
});
```

## Consuming Promises

A Promise object serves as a link between the executor (the “producing code”) and the consuming functions, which will receive the result or error. Consuming functions can be registered (subscribed) using methods `.then`, `.catch` and `.finally`.

### .then

```js
promise.then(
  function (result) {
    /* handle a successful result */
  },
  function (error) {
    /* handle an error */
  }
);
```

The first argument of `.then` is a function that runs when the promise is resolved, and receives the result.

The second argument of `.then` is a function that runs when the promise is rejected, and receives the error.

```js
let promise = new Promise(function (resolve, reject) {
  setTimeout(() => resolve("done!"), 1000);
});

// resolve runs the first function in .then
promise.then(
  (result) => alert(result), // shows "done!" after 1 second
  (error) => alert(error) // doesn't run
);
```

If we’re interested only in successful completions, then we can provide only one function argument to `.then`:

```js
let promise = new Promise((resolve) => {
  setTimeout(() => resolve("done!"), 1000);
});

promise.then(alert); // shows "done!" after 1 second
```

### .catch

If we’re interested only in errors, then we can use null as the first argument: `.then(null, errorHandlingFunction)`. Or we can use `.catch(errorHandlingFunction)`, which is exactly the same:

```js
let promise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
  setTimeout(() => reject(new Error("Whoops!")), 1000);
});

// .catch(f) is the same as promise.then(null, f)
promise.catch(alert); // shows "Error: Whoops!" after 1 second
```

The call `.catch(f)` is a complete analog of `.then(null, f)`, it’s just a shorthand.

### .finally

Just like there’s a finally clause in a regular `try {...}` `catch {...}`, there’s finally in promises.

The call `.finally(f)` is similar to `.then(f, f)` in the sense that f always runs when the promise is settled: be it resolve or reject.

finally is a good handler for performing cleanup, e.g. stopping our loading indicators, as they are not needed anymore, no matter what the outcome is.

Like this:

```js
new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
  /* do something that takes time, and then call resolve/reject */
})
  // runs when the promise is settled, doesn't matter successfully or not
  .finally(() => stop loading indicator)
  // so the loading indicator is always stopped before we process the result/error
  .then(result => show result, err => show error)
```

That said, `finally(f)` isn’t exactly an alias of `then(f,f)` though. There are few subtle differences:

1. A finally handler has no arguments. In finally we don’t know whether the promise is successful or not. That’s all right, as our task is usually to perform “general” finalizing procedures.
1. A finally handler passes through results and errors to the next handler.

For instance, here the result is passed through finally to then:

```js
new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
  setTimeout(() => resolve("result"), 2000);
})
  .finally(() => alert("Promise ready"))
  .then((result) => alert(result)); // <-- .then handles the result
```

And here there’s an error in the promise, passed through finally to catch:

```js
new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
  throw new Error("error");
})
  .finally(() => alert("Promise ready"))
  .catch((err) => alert(err)); // <-- .catch handles the error object
```

## Chaining Promises

One common pattern we’ll see with asynchronous programming is multiple operations which depend on each other to execute or that must be executed in a certain order. We might make one request to a database and use the data returned to us to make another request and so on. Let’s illustrate this with another cleaning example, washing clothes:

We take our dirty clothes and put them in the washing machine. If the clothes are cleaned, then we’ll want to put them in the dryer. After the dryer runs, if the clothes are dry, then we can fold them and put them away.

This process of chaining promises together is called **composition**. Promises are designed with composition in mind. Here’s a simple promise chain in code:

```javascript
firstPromiseFunction()
  .then((firstResolveVal) => {
    return secondPromiseFunction(firstResolveVal);
  })
  .then((secondResolveVal) => {
    console.log(secondResolveVal);
  });
```

Let’s break down what’s happening in the example:

- We invoke a function `firstPromiseFunction()` which returns a promise.
- We invoke `.then()` with an anonymous function as the success handler.
- Inside the success handler we return a new promise— the result of invoking a second function, `secondPromiseFunction()` with the first promise’s resolved value.
- We invoke a second `.then()` to handle the logic for the second promise settling.
- Inside that `.then()`, we have a success handler which will log the second promise’s resolved value to the console.

In order for our chain to work properly, we had to return the promise `secondPromiseFunction(firstResolveVal)`. This ensured that the return value of the first `.then()` was our second promise rather than the default return of a new promise with the same settled value as the initial.

## Example

We’ve got the loadScript function for loading a script from the previous chapter.

Here’s the callback-based variant, just to remind us of it:

```js
function loadScript(src, callback) {
  let script = document.createElement("script");
  script.src = src;

  script.onload = () => callback(null, script);
  script.onerror = () => callback(new Error(`Script load error for ${src}`));

  document.head.append(script);
}
```

Let’s rewrite it using Promises.

The new function **loadScript** will not require a callback. Instead, it will create and return a Promise object that resolves when the loading is complete. The outer code can add handlers (subscribing functions) to it using `.then`:

```js
function loadScript(src) {
  return new Promise(function (resolve, reject) {
    let script = document.createElement("script");
    script.src = src;

    script.onload = () => resolve(script);
    script.onerror = () => reject(new Error(`Script load error for ${src}`));

    document.head.append(script);
  });
}
```

Usage:

```js
let promise = loadScript(
  "https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/lodash.js/4.17.11/lodash.js"
);

promise.then(
  (script) => alert(`${script.src} is loaded!`),
  (error) => alert(`Error: ${error.message}`)
);

promise.then((script) => alert("Another handler..."));
```
