# Binary Operators

A binary operator is one that requires two operands, or variables, to function.

* All of the arithmetic operators may be applied to any Java primitives, except boolean and String. Furthermore, only the addition operators + and += may be applied to String values, which results in String concatenation.
* If two values have different data types, Java will automatically promote one of the values **to the larger of the two** data types.

```Java
int x = 1;
long y = 33;
x * y -> long
```

* If one of the values is integral (no decimal) and the other is floating-point (with decimales), Java will automatically promote the integral value to the floating-point value’s data type.

```Java
x = 1 -> 1.0
```

* Smaller data types, namely **byte, short, and char**, are first promoted to int any time they’re used with a Java binary arithmetic operator, even if neither of the operands is int.

```Java
short x = 10;
short y = 3;
x / y -> int
```

* After all promotion has occurred and the operands have the same data type, the resulting value will have the same data type as its promoted operands.

Eg.1:

What is the data type of `x * y / z? short x = 14;`

```Java
float y = 13;
double z = 30;
```

In this case, we must apply all of the rules:

* First, x will automatically be promoted to int solely because it is a short and it is being used in an arithmetic binary operation.
* The promoted x value will then be automatically promoted to a float so that it can be multiplied with y. 
* The result of x * y will then be automatically promoted to a double, so that it can be multiplied with z, resulting in a double value.

Eg.2:

```Java
short x = 10;
short y = 3;
short z = x * y; // DOES NOT COMPILE
```

Based on everything you have learned up until now, can you understand why the last line of this statement will not compile? If you remember, short values are automatically promoted to int when applying any arithmetic operator, with the resulting value being of type int. Trying to set a short variable to an int results in a compiler error, as Java thinks you are trying to implicitly convert from a larger data type to a smaller one.