# Polimorphism

A Java object may be accessed using a reference with the same type as the object, a reference that is a superclass of the object, or a reference that defines an interface the object implements, either directly or through a superclass. Furthermore, a cast is not required if the object is being reassigned to a super type or interface of the object:

```Java
public class Primate {
    public boolean hasHair() {
        return true;
    }
}
public interface HasTail {
    public boolean isTailStriped();
}

public class Lemur extends Primate implements HasTail {
    public boolean isTailStriped() {
        return false;
    }

public int age = 10;

public static void main(String[] args) {
    Lemur lemur = new Lemur();
    System.out.println(lemur.age);
    HasTail hasTail = lemur;
    System.out.println(hasTail.isTailStriped());
    Primate primate = lemur;
    System.out.println(primate.hasHair());
    }
}
```

This code compiles and executes without issue and yields the following output:

10

false

true

The most important thing to note about this example is that only one object, Lemur, is created and referenced. The ability of an instance of Lemur to be passed as an instance of an interface it implements, HasTail, as well as an instance of one of its superclasses, Primate, is the nature of polymorphism.

## Importante

Once the object has been assigned a new reference type, only the methods and variables available to that reference type are callable on the object without an explicit cast. For example, the following snippets of code will not compile:

```Java
HasTail hasTail = lemur;
System.out.println(hasTail.age); // DOES NOT COMPILE
Primate primate = lemur;
System.out.println(primate.isTailStriped()); // DOES NOT COMPILE
```

In this example, the reference hasTail has direct access only to methods defined with the HasTail interface; therefore, it doesn’t know the variable age is part of the object. Likewise, the reference primate has access only to methods defined in the Primate class, and it doesn’t have direct access to the isTailStriped() method.

## Object vs Reference

In Java all objects are accessed by reference, you never have direct access to the object itself.

1. The type of the object determines which properties exist within the object in memory.
1. The type of the reference to the object determines which methods and variables are accessible to the Java program.

It therefore follows that successfully changing a reference of an object to a new reference type may give you access to new properties of the object, but those properties existed before the reference change occurred.

## Casting Objects

In the previous example, once we changed the reference type, though, we lost access to more specifc methods defined in the subclass that still exist within the object.

We can reclaim those references by casting the object back to the specifc subclass it came from:

```Java
Primate primate = lemur;
Lemur lemur2 = primate; // DOES NOT COMPILE

Lemur lemur3 = (Lemur)primate;
System.out.println(lemur3.age);
```

Here are some basic rules to keep in mind when casting variables:

1. Casting an object from a subclass to a superclass doesn’t require an explicit cast.
1. Casting an object from a superclass to a subclass requires an explicit cast.
1. The compiler will not allow casts to unrelated types.
1. Even when the code compiles without issue, an exception may be thrown at runtime if the object being cast is not actually an instance of that class.

The exam may try to trick you with a cast that the compiler
doesn’t allow. For example:

```java
public class Bird {}
public class Fish {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Fish fish = new Fish();
        Bird bird = (Bird)fish; // DOES NOT COMPILE
    }
}
```

```Java
public class Rodent {
}
public class Capybara extends Rodent {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Rodent rodent = new Rodent();
        Capybara capybara = (Capybara)rodent; // Throws ClassCastException at runtime
    }
}
```

This code creates an instance of Rodent and then tries to cast it to a subclass of Rodent, Capybara. Although this code will compile without issue, it will throw a
ClassCastException at runtime since the object being referenced is not an instance of the Capybara class.

When reviewing a question on the exam that involves casting and polymorphism, be sure to remember what the instance of the object actually is. Then, focus on whether the compiler will allow the object to be referenced with or without explicit casts.