# Functions

In JavaScript, functions are first-class objects, because they can have properties and methods just like any other object. What distinguishes them from other objects is that functions can be called. In brief, they are Function objects.

## Declaration

There are a few different ways to define a function in JavaScript:

### #1: Function declaration

>⚠ Function declarations are hoisted — expressions are not.

```javascript
function name(parameters){
  statements
}
```

### #2: Function Expression

A function definition is a regular binding where the value of the binding is a function.

For example:

```javascript
let name = function(parameters){
  statements
}
```

### #3: Arrow Function Expression

```Javascript
// Traditional way
const calculateArea = function (width, height) {
  const area = width * height;
  return area;
}
```

```Javascript
// Arrow function
const calculateArea = (width, height) => {
  const area = width * height;
  return area;
}
```

#### Concise body Arrow Function

Functions that take only a single parameter do not need that parameter to be enclosed in parentheses. However, if a function takes zero or multiple parameters, parentheses are required.

```javascript
// Zero Parameters
const functionName = () => {};
```

```javascript
// One Parameter
const functionName = paramOne => {};
```

```javascript
// Two or more parameters
const functionName = (paramOne, paramTwo) => {};
```

A function body composed of a single-line block does not need curly braces. Without the curly braces, whatever that line evaluates will be automatically returned. The contents of the block should immediately follow the arrow => and the return keyword can be removed. This is referred to as implicit return.

```javascript
// Single-line Block
const sumNumbers = number => number + number;
```

```javascript
// Multi-line Block
const sumNumbers = number => {
  const sum = number + number;
  return sum;
};
```

## Parameters

The parameters of a function call are the function's arguments. Arguments are passed to functions by value. If the function changes the value of an argument, this change is not reflected globally or in the calling function. However if the function changes an object's properties, that change is visible outside the function.

### Return statement

A return statement determines the value the function returns. When control comes across such a statement, it immediately jumps out of the current function and gives the returned value to the code that called the function.

A return keyword without an expression after it will cause the function to return `undefined`. Functions that don’t have a return statement at all, such as `makeNoise`, similarly return `undefined`.

## Scope

JavaScript has three scopes – **global**, **local** and **Block level**. Any variable declared outside of a function belongs to the global scope, and is therefore accessible from anywhere in your code. Each function has its own scope, and any variable declared within that function is only accessible from that function and any nested functions. Because local scope in JavaScript is created by functions, it’s also called function scope.

In ECMAScript 6 you can also create **block level scopes** via the `let` keyword. A block is a set of opening and closing curly brackets. Rather than being scoped to the function `let` and `const` are scoped to the block.