# Hash Values

Hashing is the process of mapping binary data of a variable length to a fixed size binary data. Applying the same hash function to two identical data structures yields the same result. Hash cannot be reversed.

Hashing (performing hashing algorithms) is the process of converting data into short and fixed length unreadable form. This process is irreversible, i.e., you cannot convert hashed data back to the original one. Every time you generate hash for specific data, it will be the same output (hashed form). It is used to check the integrity of data, string comparison, Data authenticity and, most importantly for security, password storage. Unlike encryption, Hashing is a one-way process.

C# provides several algorithms of hashing to work with:

| Algorithm | Description                                                                                                                       |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| SHA1      | SHA1 is a cryptography hash function, resulting in a 160-bit hash value.                                                          |
| SHA256    | SHA256 is a cryptography hash function, resulting in a 256-bit hash value.                                                        |
| SHA512    | SHA512 is a cryptography hash function, resulting in a 512-bit hash value.                                                        |
| SHA384    | SHA384 is a cryptography hash function, resulting in a 384-bit hash value.                                                        |
| RIPEMD160 | RIPEMD (RACE Integrity Primitives Evaluation Message Digest) 160 is a cryptography hash function, similar in performance to SHA1. |

These algorithms (classes) are defined in .NET and can be used to perform hashing. You can use any of the above hashing algorithms. We use SHA256 in the example to understand how it is performed.

For example, you have a password and want to store it in your database so that if anyone ever stole the database, the hacker would not know the password as it would be in unreadable form.

```csharp
//password to be hashed
string password = "HelloWorld";

//password in bytes
var passwordInBytes = Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes(password);

//Create the SHA512 object
HashAlgorithm sha512 = SHA512.Create();

//generate the hash
byte[] hashInBytes = sha512.ComputeHash(passwordInBytes);

var hashedData = new StringBuilder();
foreach (var item in hashInBytes)
{
    hashedData.Append(item);
}

Console.WriteLine("Hashed Password is: " + hashedData.ToString());
```

## Salt Hashing

Salt is non-repetitive random data that is added to a value before it is hashed. It makes hashed values much more difficult to crack.

```csharp
//password to be hashed
string password = "HelloWorld";

//generate Salt (GUID is globally unique identifer)
Guid salt = Guid.NewGuid();

//Merge password with random value
string saltedPassword = password + salt;

//password in bytes
var passwordInBytes = Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes(password + salt);

//Create the SHA512 object
HashAlgorithm sha512 = SHA512.Create();

//generate the hash
byte[] hashInBytes = sha512.ComputeHash(passwordInBytes);

var hashedData = new StringBuilder();
foreach (var item in hashInBytes)
{
    hashedData.Append(item);
}
Console.WriteLine("Unique hashed Password is: " + hashedData.ToString());
```

`NewGuid()` method created a global unique identifier, i.e., it changed a value concatenation with a password to generate a different hash every time the code runs; hence, salt hashing protects you from a security attack by hackers.
C# provides `GetHashCode()` method on every instance to generate its hash code, which is normally used for a string or value comparison .

## Hashing uses

Hashing functions are used in several scenarios:

- **Indexing data**: Instead of matching the data when the index key is a variable length, calculate the hash value of the index key and locate that instead. The hash value resulting from a data structure is usually shorter than the original value, so when searching for a shorter amount of data, the search time will be shorter as well. It is possible that two or more index keys can yield the same hash value. In this situation the indexing algorithm uses a technique called hash bucket, where all the index keys having the same hash value are grouped together. The kind of hashing used in this scenario has nothing to do with cryptography, but it is worth mentioning.

- **Data integrity**: Data integrity is used to ensure that the data reaches the destination unchanged. The sender computes a cryptographic hash of the data that wants to send, and then the sender sends the data, the hash, and information about the technique used to compute the hash to the receiver. The receiver can apply the same algorithm to the data, and it will compare the resulting hash with the one received. If they are the same, it means that the data wasn’t changed after the hash was computed. This doesn’t guarantee that the data is not changed, though. If someone wants to change the message, the only thing that person will have to do is to compute the hash of the new message and send that instead.

- **Data authenticity**: Data authenticity is used when a receiver wants to make sure that the data is coming from the right sender and that it is not changed on its way. It works in this way: º sender computes a cryptographic hash and signs it with its own private key. The receiver hashes the data again and then decrypts the received signature, uses the senders’ public key to decrypt the signature, and verifies that is the same as the hash.

- **Password storage**: Storing a password in plain text is an unsecure technique, and if the data store becomes compromised, all the passwords will be compromised as well. To protect the passwords, they are usually hashed, and instead of saving the password, you save the hash of the password. When someone attempts to log in, you can hash the entered password and verify that the two hashes are the same. The strength of the cryptographic hash is that it is improbable that two different inputs generate the same hash. Two passwords that are not the same and differ little from each other can produce two completely different hashes.

There are two kind of hashing algorithms: with or without a key. The algorithms without keys are used only to calculate secure hashes for data to ensure integrity, whereas the keyed algorithms are used together with a key as a MAC for both integrity and authenticity.