# Working with SecureString Class

A lot of data in your application consists of simple strings. For example, passwords and credit card numbers are both strings. But the default `System.String` implementation is not optimized for security.
The .NET Framework offers a special class that can help you minimize the surface area an attacker has: `System.Security.SecureString`.

`SecureString` automatically encrypts the string and stores it in a special memory location. It is mutable and implements `IDisposable`; that's why there is not a problem of multiple copies of data and the impossibility of a garbage collector to clear all copies. Whenever you are done working with `SecureString`, you can make sure its content is removed from memory, using `IDisposable`.

`SecureString` does not properly secure the data but minimizes the risk for data to be compromised. It takes string character by character, not the whole string at all. When necessary, you can make the string encrypted by `SecureString` as just read-only

tldr:

* Automatically encrypts its content
* Pinned to a memory location
* It's mutable
* The GC doesn't move it.
* Implements IDisposable interface

The only problem comes when it's initialized and you want to pass the content in. That's why the only way to populate it is going one character at a time. See the following example:

```csharp
SecureString secureString = new SecureString();

Console.Write("Please enter your Credit Card Number: ");
while (true)
{
    ConsoleKeyInfo enteredKey = Console.ReadKey(true);
    if (enteredKey.Key == ConsoleKey.Enter)
    break;
    secureString.AppendChar(enteredKey.KeyChar);
    Console.Write("#");
}
secureString.MakeReadOnly();

//When done with SecureString, Dispose the content so that it does not remain in memory
secureString.Dispose();
```

At some point, you probably want to convert the `SecureString` back to a normal string so you can use it. The .NET Framework offers some special functionality for this. Reading the encrypted string makes the string decrypted and returns it as a normal string (plain text) so you must clear the normal string from memory after reading; even these would be an exception. So encapulate reading code with `try/catch/finally` block:

```csharp
IntPtr plainTextAsIntPtr = IntPtr.Zero;

try
{
    //Decrypt string (as a IntPtr)
    plainTextAsIntPtr = Marshal.SecureStringToGlobalAllocUnicode(secureString);
    Marshal.PtrToStringUni(plainTextAsIntPtr);
}
catch (Exception ex)
{
    Console.WriteLine(ex.Message);
}
finally
{
    //This method CLeared decrypted string from memory
    Marshal.ZeroFreeGlobalAllocUnicode(plainTextAsIntPtr);
    Console.WriteLine("Memory Cleared.");
}
```

The Marshal class gives a method for decrypting string along with a method to clear the content of decrypted string from memory.
`SecureStringToGlobalAllocUnicode()` method is static and is used to read the secure string and return the address of a memory location which contains the value as IntPtr (pointer). That pointer contains the address of the memory location, and is converted to a string (value) that the pointer contains (points to).
`ZeroFreeGlobalAllocUnicode()` method is also static and is used along with
`SecureStringToGlobalAllocUnicode()` method to free the content of the decrypted string from memory.
Marshal class also provides other methods for reading the secure string along with their respective methods for disposing the decrypted content from memory.

## Methods

Methods for working with SecureString

| Decrypt method                   | Clear memory method        |
| -------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| SecureStringToBSTR               | ZeroFreeBSTR               |
| SecureStringToCoTaskMemAnsi      | ZeroFreeCoTaskMemAnsi      |
| SecureStringToCoTaskMemUnicode   | ZeroFreeCoTaskMemUnicode   |
| SecureStringToGlobalAllocAnsi    | ZeroFreeGlobalAllocAnsi    |
| SecureStringToGlobalAllocUnicode | ZeroFreeGlobalAllocUnicode |

It’s important to realize that a `SecureString` is not completely secure. You can create an application, running in full thrust, which will be able to read the `SecureString` content. However, it does add to the complexity of hacking your application. All the small steps you can take to make your application more secure will create a bigger hindrance for an attacker.
