# Manage and create certificates

[Certificates](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows/desktop/SecCrypto/managing-certificates-with-certificate-stores)

Although the communication might seem secure at times, when two parties communicate, they need to make sure that they are talking with the right partner. For instance, when you want to do a bank transaction via the Internet, you need to make sure that you are on your bank site and not on some website that is spoofing the identity of your bank. You also want to know that the communication is secured. For web applications there are two protocols that solve this problem: Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Secure Socket Layer (SSL).

Certificates are built on top of Asymmetric encryption and Hashing. If Bob wants to send a message to Mike, he will hash his message and then encrypt both message and hash using Mike's public key. Then, Mike will decrypt both items using his private key and will validate the integrity of the message comparing the hash received and a new hash based on Bob decrypted message. 

Certificate glossary:

* Public Key Infrastructure (PKI): authenticate and verify the validity of each involved party
* Certificate Authority (CA): third-party issuer of certificates trust-worthly by all parties
* Used to secure Internet communications.
* HTTPS: communication protocol ensures that a client is talking with the right server, not to an impostor.

.Net provides a tool to generate your own **X.509** test certificates called: `makecert.exe`. With the following console commands you'll end up creating your own new certificate and installing it on your machine:

```bash
makecert testCert.cer
makecert -n "CN=WouterDeKort" -sr currentuser -ss testCertStore
```