# Types

C# is a strongly-typed language. All types, including built-in numeric types such as `int`, derive ultimately from a single base type, which is `object`.

## 1. Built-in Types

C# provides a standard set of built-in numeric types to represent numbers, characters, and other types of data. There are also built-in string and object types. For more information about the built-in types:

>[Built-in Types](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/built-in-types-table)

## 2. Custom Types

You use the `struct`, `class`, `interface`, and `enum` constructs to create your own custom types.

## Declaration

Local variables in C# must be initialized before they are used.

## Literal Values

In C#, literal values receive a type from the compiler. You can specify how a numeric literal should be typed by appending a letter to the end of the number. For example, to specify that the value 4.56 should be treated as a float, append an `f` or `F` after the number: `4.56f`. If no letter is appended an integer literal will be evaluated to `int` and a real literal will be evaluated to `double`.

There are data type suffixes given below:

* *L or l for `long`* (l in small letters should be avoided as it confuses you with digit 1)
* *D or d for `double`*
* *F or f for `float`*
* *M or m for `decimal`* (D is already taken for double, so M is best representation for decimal)
* *U or u for `unsigned integer`*
* *UL or ul for `unsigned long`*
* *M or m for `Decimal`*

There are no data type suffixes for `int`, `byte`, `sbyte`, `short`, `ushort`. Previous versions of C# used to have `Y` and `S` suffixes for `byte` and `short` respectively, but they were dropped from C# specification.

Because literals are typed, and all types derive ultimately from `System.Object`, you can write and compile code such as the following:

```csharp
string s = "The answer is " + 5.ToString();
// Outputs: "The answer is 5"
```
