# Head

The HTML head is the contents of the `<head>` element — unlike the contents of the `<body>` element (which are displayed on the page when loaded in a browser), the head's content is not displayed on the page. Instead, the head's job is to contain metadata about the document.

## Title

the `<title>` element can be used to add a title to the the overall `HTML` document (not the document's content).

💡 If you try bookmarking the page you will see the `<title>` contents filled in as the suggested bookmark name.

## Metadata

Metadata is data that describes data, and `HTML` has an *"official"* way of adding metadata to a document — the `<meta>` element.

There are a lot of different types of `<meta>` elements that can be included in your page's `<head>`, for example:

```html
<meta charset="utf-8">

<html lang="en-US">
```

## Author and description

Many `<meta>` elements include name and content attributes:

name specifies the type of meta element it is; what type of information it contains.
content specifies the actual meta content:

```html
<meta name="author" content="Chris Mills">

<meta name="description" content="The MDN Web Docs Learning Area aims to provide complete beginners to the Web with all they need to know to get started with developing web sites and applications.">
```

>💡 The description is used on search engine result pages.

As you travel around the web, you'll find other types of metadata, too. A lot of the features you'll see on websites are proprietary creations, designed to provide certain sites (such as social networking sites) with specific pieces of information they can use. Twitter also has its own similar proprietary metadata, which has a similar effect when the site's URL is displayed on twitter.com. For example:

```html
<meta name="twitter:title" content="Mozilla Developer Network">
```

## Adding custom icons

To further enrich your site design, you can add references to custom icons in your metadata, and these will be displayed in certain contexts. The most commonly used of these is the favicon (short for "favorites icon", referring to its use in the "favorites" or "bookmarks" lists in browsers).

A favicon can be added to your page by:

1. Saving it in the same directory as the site's index page, saved in `.ico` format (most browsers will support .gif or .png.)
1. Adding the following line into your HTML's `<head>` block to reference it:

```html
<link rel="shortcut icon" href="favicon.ico" type="image/x-icon">
```

## Applying CSS and Javascript to HTML

1. `<Link>` element:

    ```html
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="my-css-file.css">
    ```

    The `<link>` element always goes inside the head of your document. This takes two attributes, `rel="stylesheet"`, which indicates that it is the document's stylesheet, and `href`, which contains the path to the stylesheet file:

1. `<script>` element:

    ```html
    <script src="my-js-file.js"></script>
    ```

    The `<script>` element does not have to go in the head; in fact, often it is better to put it at the bottom of the document body (just before the closing `</body>` tag).
