# HTML forms Overview

HTML Forms allow users to send data to the web site. An HTML Form is made of one or more widgets. Those widgets can be text fields (single line or multiline), select boxes, buttons, checkboxes, or radio buttons. Most of the time those widgets are paired with a label that describes their purpose.

All HTML forms start with a `<form>` element like this:

```html
<form action="/my-handling-form-page" method="post">

</form>
```

The `<form>` element defines how the data will be sent. All of its attributes are designed to let you configure the request to be sent when a user hits a submit button. The two most important attributes are **action** and **method**:

- The **action** attribute defines the location (URL) where the form's collected data should be sent when it is submitted.
- The **method** attribute defines which HTTP method to send the data with,"get" or "post".

## `<label>`, `<input>`,`<textarea>`

```html
<form action="/my-handling-form-page" method="post">
  <div>
    <label for="name">Name:</label>
    <input type="text" id="name" name="user_name">
  </div>
  <div>
    <label for="mail">E-mail:</label>
    <input type="email" id="mail" name="user_mail">
  </div>
  <div>
    <label for="msg">Message:</label>
    <textarea id="msg" name="user_message"></textarea>
  </div>
</form>
```

The `<form>` element will define where and how to send the data thanks to the **action** attribute and the **method** attribute.

But it's not enough. We also need to give a name to our data. Those names are important on both sides; on the browser side, it tells the browser which name to give each piece of data, and on the server side, it lets the server handle each piece of data by name. To name the data in a form you need to use the name attribute on each form widget that will collect a specific piece of data.

In our example, the form will send 3 pieces of data named *"user_name"*, *"user_email"*, and *"user_message"*. That data will be sent to the URL `/my-handling-form-page` using the `HTTP POST method`.

On the server side, the script at the URL `/my-handling-form-page` will receive the data as a list of 3 key/value items embodied in the HTTP request. The way this script will handle that data is up to you. Each server-side language (PHP, Python, Ruby, Java, C#, etc.) has its own mechanism.

### The `<button>` element

```html
<div class="button">
  <button type="submit">Send your message</button>
</div>
```

the `<button>` element also accepts a type attribute — this accepts one of three values: `submit`, `reset`, or `button`.

- A click on a `submit` button (the default value) sends the form's data to the web page defined by the action attribute of the `<form>` element.
- A click on a `reset` button resets all the form widgets to their default value immediately. From a UX point of view, this is considered bad practice.
- A click on a `button` button does... nothing! That sounds silly, but it's amazingly useful for building custom buttons with JavaScript.

## Sending data to your server

