# Advanced Functions

Functions that specify the `CmdletBinding` attribute can access a number of methods and properties that are available to compiled cmdlets.

## Processing Methods: Pipeline Support with Begin, Process and End

>💡 Get-Help about_pipelines

To get better at organizing code, Advanced functions allows you to write `Begin`, `Process` and `End` code blocks.

PowerShell functions can accept input in one of two ways: Using parameters or the pipeline. If you want to support the pipeline in your scripts, then you have to add a `process` block.

Scripts, functions, and script blocks also have access to the `$input` variable, which provides an enumerator over the elements in the incoming pipeline.

### Begin

This block is used to setting up code before begining processing.
Everything in the `Begin` block will only run once per call of your function.

The BEGIN block is optional and is NOT needed if you are just wanting to use either the PROCESS or END blocks

### Process

The process block is where the work is done. The process block gets run for everything that is piped to it or, if nothing gets piped to it, it still runs just once.

The `process` block behaves differently for pipeline input than for parameter input:

- **A value** passed by parameter name will be processed **only once** in the `process` block.
- If a value or set of values gets passed **via the pipeline**, the `process` block will execute *once for each item* on the pipeline.

To handle multiple values passed **both** by parameter and by pipeline, you need to add a foreach loop.

    ```powershell
    function foo {
    [cmdletbinding()]
        Param (
            [parameter(ValueFromPipeline=$True)]
            [string[]]$Name)

        Begin {}
        Process{
            foreach ($N in $Name) {
                write-verbose $N
                }
            }
        End{}
    }
    ```

The PROCESS block can be used without the BEGIN or END blocks

### End

This block is used to provide optional one-time post-processing for the function.

Example:

The following example shows the outline of a function that contains a Begin block for one-time preprocessing, a Process block for multiple record processing, and an End block for one-time post-processing.

```powershell
Function Test-Demo
{
    Param ($Param1)

    Begin{ write-host "Starting"}
    Process{ write-host "processing" $_ for $Param1}
    End{write-host "Ending"}
}

PS C:\> Echo Testing1, Testing2 | Test-Demo Sample
```

## Confirmation Methods

### ShouldProcess

This method is called to request confirmation from the user before the function performs an action that would change the system.
This method can only be called only from within the `Process{}` block of the function. The `CmdletBinding` attribute must also declare that the function supports `ShouldProcess`.

### ShouldContinue

This method is called to request a second confirmation message. It should be called when the `ShouldProcess` method returns `$true`.

## Error Methods

Functions can call two different methods when errors occur. When a non-terminating error occurs, the function should call the `WriteError` method.
When a terminating error occurs and the function cannot continue, it should call the `ThrowTerminatingError` method. You can also use the `Throw` statement for terminating errors and the `Write-Error` cmdlet for nonterminating errors.

## Other Methods and Properties

For information about the other methods and properties that can be accessed through the $PSCmdlet variable, see System.Management.Automation.PSCmdlet in the MSDN library.