# Fundamentals of Object Life Cycle

In .NET, the **“life cycle”** of an object is the length of time between its creation and its destruction.

## Memory Management

C# provides two ways to deal with memory management:

* Garbage Collection
* Disposal & Using statement
* Finalizers

## Garbage Collection

Garbage collection (GC) is an automatic memory management service that takes care of the resource cleanup for all managed objects in the managed heap.

Garbage collection is a very expensive process; it doesn't run all the time, it runs when any of following conditions is true:

1. When the system runs out of physical memory.
2. When the `GC.Collect` method is called manually.
3. When allocated objects in memory need more space.

### Disposal

* Some resources require explicit code to release resources faster.
* Open files, database connections, locks, os handles and other unmanaged objects.
* Disposal provides the teardown code to release resources.
* Disposal is supported via the `IDisposable` interface.
* There are two ways to implement Disposal:
  * Calling the `Dispose()` method.
  * The `Using` statement.

## Finalizers (destructors)

Finalizers are used to perform any necessary final clean-up when a class instance is being collected by the garbage collector. Finalizers are the opposite of constructors.

The programmer has no control over when the finalizer is called because this is determined by the garbage collector. The garbage collector checks for objects that are no longer being used by the application. If it considers an object eligible for finalization, it calls the finalizer (if any) and reclaims the memory used to store the object.

In .NET Framework applications (but not in .NET Core applications), finalizers are also called when the program exits.

* A Finalizer is the las opportunity to work with an object
* Slow the allocation and collection of memory.
* Prolong the life of objects.
* If code in a finalizer blocks, references other finalizable objects, or throws exceptions, finalization will not occur.

### Syntax

A finalizer in C# requires some special syntax, just as a constructor. You need to prefx the class name with a tilde (~) to create a fnalizer:

```Csharp
public class SomeType
{
  ~SomeType()
  {
  // This code is called when the finalize method executes
  }
}
```