# Garbage collection

There are two places in memory where the CLR stores items while your code executes. One is the stack; the other is the heap.

- The `stack` keeps track of what’s executing in your code,
- The `heap` keeps track of your objects.

Value types can be stored on both the stack and the heap. For every object on the heap, there is always a reference on the stack that points to it. The stack is automatically cleared at the end of a method.

The heap is managed by the garbage collector. In unmanaged environments without a garbage collector, you have to keep track of which objects were allocated on the heap and you need to free them explicitly. In the .NET Framework, this is done by the garbage collector.

## Garbage Collector and Managed Heap

When garbage collector is initialized by CLR, it stores and manages objects by allocating a segment of memory called *managed heap*. Each managed process in .NET has a managed heap. Each thread in a process shares the same managed heap to store and manage objects.

1. Garbage collector calls a win32 `VirtualAlloc` method to reserve a segment of memory in managed heap.
2. When garbage collector needs to release a segment of memory, it calls a win32 `VirtualFree` method.
3. When garbage collector runs, it removes dead objects and reclaims their memory; it compacts the live objects together to preserve their locality and makes the managed heap smaller.

### Forcing the garbage collection

As already mentioned, the finalizer is called only when a garbage collection occurs. You can force this by adding a call to GC.Collect. The line WaitForPendingFinalizers makes sure that all fnalizers have run before the code continues. The garbage collector is pretty smart in managing memory, and it’s not recommended that you call GC.Collect yourself.

```csharp
StreamWriter stream = File.CreateText("temp.dat");
stream.Write("some data");
GC.Collect();
GC.WaitForPendingFinalizers();
File.Delete("temp.dat");
```

What’s important to understand is that a finalizer increases the life of an object. Because the finalization code also has to run, the .NET Framework keeps a reference to the object in a special fnalization queue.

## Weak references

A WeakReference, as the name suggests, doesn’t hold a real reference to an item on the heap, so that it can’t be garbage collected. But when garbage collection hasn’t occurred yet, you can still access the item through the WeakReference.