# Using Parse, TryParse, and Convert

Most input to your application comes in as a simple string. Maybe you know that it actually represents a number or a valid date, but you have to check this to ensure that the data is valid. The .NET Framework has some built-in types that help you convert data from one type to another.

## Parse

The `Parse` method can be used when you have a string that you want to convert to a specific data type. For example, if you have a string that you know is a Boolean value, you can use the `bool.Parse` method:

```csharp
string value = “true”;
bool b = bool.Parse(value);
Console.WriteLine(b); // displays True
```

If your string contains an invalid value, Parse throws a `FormatException`. If you pass a null value for the string, you will get an `ArgumentNullException`. Parse should be used if you are certain the parsing will succeed. If an exception is thrown, this denotes a real error in your application.

When using the `bool.Parse` methods, you don’t have any extra parsing options. When parsing numbers, you can supply extra options for the style of the number and the specific culture that you want to use.

```csharp
CultureInfo english = new CultureInfo(“En”);
CultureInfo dutch = new CultureInfo(“Nl”);
string value = “€19,95”;
decimal d = decimal.Parse(value, NumberStyles.Currency, dutch);
Console.WriteLine(d.ToString(english)); // Displays 19.95
```

## TryParse

TryParse does things differently. You use TryParse if you are not sure that the parsing will succeed. You don’t want an exception to be thrown and you want to handle invalid conver- sion gracefully.

```csharp
string value = “1”;
int result;
bool success = int.TryParse(value, out result);

if (success)
{
    // value is a valid integer, result contains the value
}
else
{
    // value is not a valid integer
}
```

As the above example shows, `TryParse` returns a Boolean value that indicates whether the value could be parsed. The `out` parameter contains the resulting value when the operation is successful. If the parsing succeeds, the variable holds the converted value; otherwise, it contains the initial value.

TryParse can be used when you are parsing some user input. If the user provides invalid data, you can show a friendly error message and let him try again.

## Convert

The .NET Framework also offers the Convert class to convert between base types. The sup- ported base types are Boolean, Char, SByte, Byte, Int16, Int32, Int64, UInt16, Uint32, Uint64, Single, Double, Decimal, DateTime, and String. The difference between Parse/TryParse and Convert is that Convert enables null values. It doesn’t throw an ArgumentNullException; instead, it returns the default value for the supplied type

```csharp
int i = Convert.ToInt32(null);
Console.WriteLine(i); // Displays 0
```

A difference between Convert and the Parse methods is that Parse takes a string only as input, while Convert can also take other base types as input.

```csharp
double d = 23.15;
int i = Convert.ToInt32(d);
Console.WriteLine(i); // Displays 23
```

Methods such as these throw an `OverflowException` when the parsed or converted value is too large for the target type.

## Parsing date and time

A complex subject is parsing a date and time. You can use the `DateTime.Parse` method for this, which offers several overloads (methods with the same name but different arguments):

- `Parse(string)` uses the current thread culture and the `DateTimeStyles.AllowWhiteSpaces`.
- `Parse(string, IFormatProvider)` uses the specified culture and the `DateTimeStyles.AllowWhiteSpaces`.
- `Parse(string, IFormatProvider, DateTimeStyles)`.

When parsing a DateTime, you must take into account things such as time zone differences and cultural differences, especially when working on an application that uses globalization. It’s important to parse user input with the correct culture.
