# The document object

The Document Object Model, usually referred to as the DOM, is an essential part of making websites interactive. It is an interface that allows a programming language to manipulate the content, structure, and style of a website. JavaScript is the client-side scripting language that connects to the DOM in an internet browser.

## What is the DOM

At the most basic level, a website consists of an HTML document. The browser that you use to view the website is a program that interprets HTML and CSS and renders the style, content, and structure into the page that you see.

In addition to parsing the style and structure of the HTML and CSS, the browser creates a representation of the document known as the Document Object Model. This model allows JavaScript to access the text content and elements of the website document as objects.

The document object is a built-in object that has many properties and methods that we can use to access and modify websites. In order to understand how to work with the DOM, you must understand how objects work in JavaScript.

## HTML vs DOM

If you modify the source of a website and then you select “View Page Source” you will notice that the source of the website does not contain the modifications we just added via JavaScript. The source of a website will not change and will never be affected by client-side JavaScript. If you refresh the page, the new code we added in the console will disappear.

There are two instances in which the browser-generated DOM will be different than HTML source code:

- The DOM is modified by client-side JavaScript
- The browser automatically fixes errors in the source code

## The DOM Tree and Nodes

All items in the DOM are defined as **nodes**. There are many types of nodes, but there are three main ones that we work with most often:

| Node Type   | Value | Example                             |
| ----------- | ----- | ----------------------------------- |
| **Element** | 1     | `<body>`                            |
| **Text**    | 3     | Text that is not part of an element |
| **Comment** | 8     | `<!-- an HTML comment -->`          |

When an HTML element is an item in the DOM, it is referred to as an element node. Any lone text outside of an element is a text node, and an HTML comment is a comment node. In addition to these three node types, the document itself is a document node, which is the root of all other nodes.

The DOM consists of a tree structure of nested nodes, which is often referred to as the DOM tree.

Every node in a document has a node type, which is accessed through the `nodeType` property. Below is a chart of the most common node types that we are working with in this tutorial.
