# Managing program database files and symbols

Program database (.pdb) files, also called symbol files, map identifiers and statements in your project's source code to corresponding identifiers and instructions in compiled apps.

When compiling your programs, you have the option of creating an extra file with the extension `.pdb`. This file is called a program database (PDB) file, which is an extra data source that annotates your application’s code with additional information about your code or program which is used by debugger for debugging purposes.

A .NET PDB file contains two pieces of information:

* Source file names and their lines
* Local variable names.

You can construct the compiler to create a PDB file by specifying the `/debug:full` or `/debug:pdbonly` switches:

Build with `/debug` to create a `.pdb` file. You can build applications with `/debug:full` or `/debug:pdbonly`. Building with `/debug:full` generates debuggable code. Building with `/debug:pdbonly` generates `.pdb` files, but does not generate the `DebuggableAttribute` that tells the JIT compiler that debug information is available. Use `/debug:pdbonly` if you want to generate `.pdb` files for a release build that you do not want to be debuggable.

## How it works

When you load a module, the debugger starts looking for the corresponding PDB file. It does this by looking for a PDB file with the same name that sits in the same directory as the application or library. So when you have a `MyApp.dll`, the debugger looks for `MyApp.pdb`. When it finds a file with a matching name, it compares an internal ID that is created by the compiler. The ID, which is a globally unique identifer (GUID), should match exactly. This way, the debugger knows that you are using the correct PDB fle and it can show the correct source code for your application while you are debugging.

The important thing is that the globally unique identifer (GUID) is created at compile time, so if you recompile your application, you get a new PDB file that matches your recompiled build exactly. Thus, you can’t debug a build from yesterday by using the PDB file that you created today; the GUIDs won’t match up, and the debugger won’t accept the PDB file.

When you execute a debug session in Visual Studio, there are no problems most of the time. Your code and the running application match exactly, and Visual Studio lets you debug the application. But when you want to debug an application that’s currently in production, you need the matching PDB file to debug the application.