# Using concurrent collections

> [Plural Sight tutorial](https://app.pluralsight.com/player?name=csharp-concurrent-collections-m1&mode=live&clip=0&course=csharp-concurrent-collections&author=simon-robinson)

In a multithreading enviroment, the same variable can be accessed by two or more threads. If the operation performed on a shared variable is atomic or thread-safe, then it produces an accurate result. If the operation is non-atomic or not thread-safe, then it produces inaccurate results.

```csharp
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Threading.Tasks;
class Program
{
    static void Main()
    {
        Dictionary<int, int> dic = new Dictionary<int, int>();
        Task tsk1 = Task.Run(() =>
        {
            for(int i = 0; i < 100; i++)
            {
                dic.Add(i, i + 1);
            }
        });

        Task tsk2 = Task.Run(() =>
        {
            for (int i = 0; i < 100; i++)
            {
                dic.Add(i + 1, i);
            }
        });

        Task[] allTasks = { tsk1, tsk2 };
        Task.WaitAll(allTasks); // Wait for all tasks
    }
}
// Output:
/* System.AggregateException accur because 'an item with the same key has already been
added'. */
```

The .NET Framework offers some collection classes that are created specifically for use in concurrent environments. These collections are thread-safe, which means that they internally use synchronization to make sure that they can be accessed by multiple threads at the same time.

## `IProducerConsumerCollection<T>`

`IProducerConsumerCollection<T>` represents a collection that allows for thread-safe adding and removal of data. `BlockingCollection<T>` is used as a wrapper for an `IProducerConsumerCollection<T>` instance, and allows removal attempts from the collection to block until data is available to be removed.

## `BlockingCollection<T>`

`BlockingCollection<T>` is a thread-safe collection class that provides the following:

- An implementation of the producer/consumer pattern; `BlockingCollection<T>` is a wrapper for the `IProducerConsumerCollection<T>` interface.
- Concurrent addition and removal of items from multiple threads with the `Add` and `Take` methods.
- A bounded collection that blocks `Add` and `Take` operations when the collection is full or empty.
- Cancellation of `Add` or `Take` operations by using a `CancellationToken` object in the `TryAdd` or `TryTake` method.

### bounding and blocking

`BlockingCollection<T>` supports **bounding** and **blocking**.

- Bounding means that you can set the maximum capacity of the collection. Bounding is important in certain scenarios because it enables you to control the maximum size of the collection in memory, and it prevents the producing threads from moving too far ahead of the consuming threads.

- Multiple threads or tasks can add items to the collection concurrently, and if the collection reaches its specified **maximum capacity**, the producing threads will **block** until an item is removed. Multiple consumers can remove items concurrently, and if the collection becomes empty, the consuming threads will **block** until a producer adds an item. A producing thread can call the `CompleteAdding` method to indicate that no more items will be added. Consumers monitor the `IsCompleted` property to know when the collection is empty and no more items will be added.

Example:

```csharp
using System;
using System.Collections.Concurrent;
using System.Threading.Tasks;
namespace Chapter1
{
    public static class Program
    {
        public static void Main()
        {
            BlockingCollection<string> col = new BlockingCollection<string>();

            Task read = Task.Run(() =>
            {
                while (true)
                {
                    Console.WriteLine(col.Take());
                }
            });

            Task write = Task.Run(() =>
            {
                while (true)
                {
                    string s = Console.ReadLine();
                    if (string.IsNullOrWhiteSpace(s)) break;
                    col.Add(s);
                }
            });

            write.Wait();
        }
    }
}
```

The program terminates when the user doesn’t enter any data. Until that, every string entered is added by the write Task and removed by the read Task.

You can use the CompleteAdding method to signal to the BlockingCollection that no more items will be added. If other threads are waiting for new items, they won’t be blocked anymore.

## Concurrent Collection Classes

- `ConcurrentBag<T>`
- `ConcurrentDictionary<TKey,T>`
- `ConcurrentQueue<T>`
- `ConcurrentStack<T>`
