# Code Accesss security

Today, you can install programs from a variety of sources, which can lead to several security issues. The .NET Framework helps you protect your computers from malicious code via a mechanism called code access security (CAS). Instead of giving all every application full trust, apps can be restricted on the types of resources they can access. The Common Language Runtime (CLR) ensures your code has the correct permissions to access privileged resources.

The common language runtime (CLR) enforces security restrictions on managed code and makes sure that your code has the correct permissions to access privileged resources.

CAS performs the following functions in the .NET Framework:

* Defines permissions for accessing system resources.
* Enables code to demand that its callers have specifc permissions. For example, a library that exposes methods that create fles should enforce that its callers have the right for fle input/output.
* Enables code to demand that its callers possess a digital signature. This way, code can make sure that it’s only called by callers from a particular organization or location.
* Enforces all those restrictions at runtime.

The base class for all things related to CAS is `System.Security.CodeAccessPermission`. Permissions that inherit from `CodeAccessPermission` are permissions such as `FileIOPermission`, `ReﬂectionPermission`, or `SecurityPermission`. When applying one of those permissions, you ask the CLR for the permission to execute a protected operation or access a resource.

There are two ways to specify CAS in C# code:

1. Declarative
2. Imperative

## Declarative

In a declarative way, we use attributes to apply security information.

```csharp
[FileIOPermission(SecurityAction.Demand, AllLocalFiles = FileIOPermissionAccess.Read)]
public void MyDeclarativeCAS()
{
// Method body
}
```

## Imperative

In an imperative way, we explicitly ask for the permission in the code.

```csharp
FileIOPermission fp = new FileIOPermission(PermissionState.None);
fp.AllLocalFiles = FileIOPermissionAccess.Read;
fp.Demand();
```

`FIleIOPermissionAccess.Read` will explicitly allow the read-only file access.