# Debugging

No matter how good your development process is, from time to time you will have a bug in your application. Debugging is the process of removing those errors from your application.

## Choosing an appropriate Build Type

If you create a new project in Visual Studio, it creates two default build confgurations for you:

* Release mode
* Debug mode

If you compile your project, the settings from these confgurations are used to configure what the compiler does. In release mode, the compiled code is fully optimized, and no extra information for debugging purposes is created. In debug mode, there is no optimization applied, and additional information is outputted.

## Creating and Managing Compiler Directives

Some programming languages have the concept of a preprocessor, which is a program that goes through your code and applies some changes to your code before handing it off to the compiler.
C# does not have a specialized preprocessor, but it does support preprocessor compiler directives, which are special instructions to the compiler to help in the compilation process.

Directives start from `#` and do not end with a semicolon as they are not statements. There must be only one preprocessor directive on a line.

C# offers the following directives to work with:

```csharp
public void DebugDirective()
{
    #if DEBUG
        Console.WriteLine("Debug mode");
    #else
        Console.WriteLine("Not debug");
    #endif
}
```

### Define symbol

You can define your own symbols by using the `#define` directive:

```csharp
#define MySymbol

// …

public void UseCustomSymbol()
{
    #if MySymbol
        Console.WriteLine("Custom symbol is defined");
    #endif
}
```

Example: In .NET 4.5, you can get the assembly of a type directly from the Assembly property. In WinRT, however, this API has changed, and you need to call GetTypeInfo.

```csharp
public Assembly LoadAssembly<T>()
{
    #if !WINRT
        Assembly assembly = typeof(T).Assembly;
    #else
        Assembly assembly = typeof(T).GetTypeInfo().Assembly;
    #endif

    return assembly;
    }
```

## Conditional Attribute

Often, preprocessor directives are used to include or exclude a certain piece of code depending on the build confguration. The .NET Framework has the `ConditionalAttribute` that you can use as an alternative. Maybe you want a certain function called only when you are building a debug confguration.

### Example

Maybe you want a certain function called only when you are building a debug confguration. Next example shows how this can be done using *preprocessor directives*:

```csharp
public void SomeMethod()
{
    #if DEBUG
    Log("Step1");
    #endif
}
private static void Log(string message)
{
    Console.WriteLine("message");
}
```

It’s inconvenient to have to wrap each call to the method in preprocessor directives. Instead, you can use the `ConditionalAttribute`, which signals to the compiler that calls to the method should be included only in the compiled program when the condition is true:

```csharp
[Conditional("DEBUG")]
private static void Log(string message)
{
Console.WriteLine("message");
}
```