# Profiling your applications

Profiling in an application is to gather information about it to analyze or study its performance or health: the speed of an application, memory consumed, disk space usage or other performance-related characteristics.

There are two main ways to do profiling of an application:

1. Profiling using Visual Studio Tool
2. Profiling by Hand

## Profiling using Visual Studio Tool

Visual Studio 2012 and above of version Ultimate, Premium or Professional includes several profiling-related tools like Memory Usage, CPU Usage, Performance Explorer, etc., which you can call Profilers. When working with Profiler, the easiest way is to use Performance Wizard (profiling tool in Visual Studio).

There are four ways to do profiling using Performance Wizard:

1. **CPU sampling**: It is the most recommended method to do profiling and is used for initial search for performance-related problems.
2. **Instrumentation**: As discussed earlier, instrumentation means to add code in your program. Basically, you add some code to gather timing information for each function called and examine it.
3. **.NET memory allocation**: This method gives you information when a new object is created or destroyed by a garbage collector.
4. **Resource contention data**: This method is useful for a multithreaded environment.

Select "CPU Sampling" and click "Next". In the next window, click on "Finish". After finishing the wizard, Profiler will launch. This may take a couple of seconds to start.
Profiler will analyze the data shown in the respective panels. The most often used calls and method paths are shown in those panels.

## Profiling by Hand

Profiling by Hand is instrumenting, i.e., inserting some code to watch the performance of an application. Normally you work with `StopWatch` in this method and record a program’s execution time. You capture timing information for every function that is called.

```csharp
static void Main(string[] args)
{
  Stopwatch watch = new Stopwatch();
  //Time taken by LoadData method
  watch.Start();
  LoadData();
  watch.Stop();

  //Time Taken by FetchData method
  Console.WriteLine("Time Taken by LoadData method: " + watch.Elapsed);

  //Reset watch
  watch.Reset();

  //Time taken by FetchData method
  watch.Start();
  var data = FetchData();
  watch.Stop();

  Console.WriteLine("Time taken by FetchData method: " + watch.Elapsed);

  Console.WriteLine("Profiling by Hand is Done");
  Console.ReadLine();
}
static void LoadData()
{
  for (int i = 0; i < 100; i++)
  {
    Debug.Write("Loading");
  }
}
static int FetchData()
{
  int data=0;
  for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++)
  {
    for (int j = 0; j < 10; j++)
    {
        data = j; }
    }
  return data;
}

// output:
// Time Taken by LoadData method: 00:00:00.1203933
// Time Taken by FetchData method: 00:00:00.0002112
// Profiling by Hand is Done.
```

As you can see, the `StopWatch` class has a `Start()`, `Stop()`, and `Reset()` method. You can get the elapsed time in milliseconds, in ticks, or formatted as in the example.