# Updating Lifecycle Methods

The first time that a component instance renders, it does not update. A component updates every time that it renders, starting with the second render.

There are five updating lifecycle methods:

- `componentWillReceiveProps`
- `shouldComponentUpdate`
- `componentWillUpdate`
- `render`
- `componentDidUpdate`

Whenever a component instance updates, it automatically calls all five of these methods, in order.

## componentWillReceiveProps

When a component instance updates, `componentWillReceiveProps` gets called before the rendering begins.

As one might expect, `componentWillReceiveProps` only gets called if the component will receive props:

```jsx
// componentWillReceiveProps will get called here:
ReactDOM.render(
  <Example prop="myVal" />,
  document.getElementById('app')
);

// componentWillReceiveProps will NOT get called here:
ReactDOM.render(
  <Example />,
  document.getElementById('app')
);
```

The first render won't trigger `componentWillReceiveProps`.

```jsx
// The first render won't trigger
// componentWillReceiveProps:
ReactDOM.render(
  <Example text="Hello world" />,
  document.getElementById('app')
);

// After the first render,
// subsequent renders will trigger
// componentWillReceiveProps:
setTimeout(() => {
  ReactDOM.render(
    <Example text="Hello world" />,
    document.getElementById('app')
  );
}, 1000);
```

## shouldComponentUpdate

When a component updates, `shouldComponentUpdate` gets called after `componentWillReceiveProps`, but still before the rendering begins.

`shouldComponentUpdate` automatically receives two arguments: `nextProps` and `nextState`. It’s typical to compare `nextProps` and `nextState` to the current `this.props` and `this.state`, and use the results to decide what to do.

## componentWillUpdate

`componentWillUpdate` gets called in between `shouldComponentUpdate` and `render`. The main purpose of `componentWillUpdate` is to interact with things outside of the React architecture. If you need to do non-React setup before a component renders, such as checking the window size or interacting with an API, then `componentWillUpdate` is a good place to do that.

```jsx
import React from 'react';

export class Example extends React.Component {
  componentWillUpdate(nextProps, nextState) {
    alert('Component is about to update!  Any second now!');
  }

  render() {
    return <h1>Hello world</h1>;
  }
}
```

## render

## componentDidUpdate

When a component instance updates, `componentDidUpdate` gets called after any rendered HTML has finished loading.

`componentDidUpdate` automatically gets passed two arguments: `prevProps` and `prevState`. `prevProps` and `prevState` are references to the component’s `props` and `state` before the current updating period began. You can compare them to the current `props` and `state`.

`componentDidUpdate` is usually used for interacting with things outside of the React environment, like the browser or APIs. It’s similar to `componentWillUpdate` in that way, except that it gets called after render instead of before.

```jsx
import React from 'react';

export class Example extends React.component {
  componentDidUpdate(prevProps, prevState) {
    alert('Component is done rendering!');
  }

  render() {
    return <h1>Hello world</h1>;
  }
}
```