# Styles

[More info](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/design-consistent-xaml-pages-with-shared-resources-and-styles/6-create-consistent-ui-with-styles)

A style is a collection of *property/value* pairs targeted at a specific UI view:

```xml
<Style TargetType="Button">
    <Setter Property="BackgroundColor" Value="#2A84D3" />
    <Setter Property="BorderColor" Value="#1C5F9B" />
    <Setter Property="BorderRadius" Value="10" />
    <Setter Property="BorderWidth" Value="3" />
    <Setter Property="TextColor" Value="White" />
</Style>
```

⚠️ You can't use this style for a label, because the Label class doesn't include the BorderColor, BorderRadius, or BorderWidth property.

## Define a Style

You'll typically define your styles as `resources` inside `ResourceDictionary`.

```xml
<Page.Resources>
    <Style x:Key="MyButtonStyle" TargetType="Button">
    ...
    </Style>
</Page.Resources>
```

## Apply a style

```xml
<Button Text="OK" Style="{StaticResource MyButtonStyle}" />
<Button Text="Cancel" Style="{DynamicResource MyButtonStyle}" />
```

❕ `DynamicResource` listens for replacement of **x:Key** in the dictionary. If you write code that loads a new style into `ResourceDictionary` with that same **x:Key** instance, the new style will automatically get applied to your UI.

## Implicit style

An implicit style is a style that you add to `ResourceDictionary` without giving it an `x:Key` instance. Implicit styles are automatically applied to all controls of the `TargetType` object.

Here's the previous example declared as an implicit style. This style will be loaded onto every Button instance on the page:

```xml
<Page.Resources>
    <Style TargetType="Button">
        <Setter Property="BackgroundColor" Value="Blue" />
        <Setter Property="BorderColor" Value="Navy" />
        ...
    </Style>
</Page.Resources>
```

⚠️ Controls that inherit from the target type will not receive the styles. To affect inherited controls, you can set the `Style.ApplyToDerivedTypes` attribute to `True`.
Example we could apply a black background style to `ContentPage` and have it affect any of your pages that inherit from it:

```xml
<Page.Resources>
    <Style TargetType="ContentPage"
           ApplyToDerivedTypes="True">
        <Setter Property="BackgroundColor" Value="Black" />
    </Style>
</Page.Resources>
```

## Override a style

```xml
<Style x:Key="MyButtonStyle" TargetType="Button">
    <Setter Property="BackgroundColor" Value="Blue" />
    <Setter Property="BorderRadius" Value="10" />
    <Setter Property="BorderWidth" Value="3" />
</Style>
```

Let's assume that this style works for all your buttons except **Cancel**, which needs a **red background**. The following code shows how to override the color setting:

```xml
<Button
    Text="Cancel"
    Style="{StaticResource MyButtonStyle}"
    BackgroundColor="Red"
    ... />
```

## Target an ancestor type

Suppose you want a custom background color for your buttons and labels. You can create separate styles for each type. Or, you can create one style with `TargetType` set to `VisualElement`. This technique works because `VisualElement` is a base class for both Button and Label.
The following code shows a style that targets a base class that's being applied to two different derived types.

```xml
<Style x:Key="MyVisualElementStyle" TargetType="VisualElement">
    <Setter Property="BackgroundColor" Value="#2A84D3" />
</Style>

<Button Style="{StaticResource MyVisualElementStyle}" ... />
<Label Style="{StaticResource MyVisualElementStyle}" ... />
```

An **implicit** style won't work here because `TargetType` for an implicit style must be an exact match to the object type.

## Inherit from a style

The following code shows two styles with a repeated setter:

```xml
<Style x:Key="MyButtonStyle" TargetType="Button">
    <Setter Property="BackgroundColor" Value="Blue" />
    <Setter Property="BorderColor" Value="Navy" />
    <Setter Property="BorderWidth" Value="5" />
</Style>

<Style x:Key="MyEntryStyle" TargetType="Entry">
    <Setter Property="BackgroundColor" Value="Blue" />
    <Setter Property="TextColor" Value="White" />
</Style>
```

The following code shows the previous example styles refactored into a hierarchy. The common setter appears only in the base style rather than being repeated. Notice that you use `StaticResource` to look up the base style. That's the only option, because Dynami`cResource **isn't allowed**.

```xml
<Style x:Key="MyVisualElementStyle" TargetType="VisualElement">
    <Setter Property="BackgroundColor" Value="Blue" />
</Style>

<Style x:Key="MyButtonStyle" TargetType="Button" BasedOn="{StaticResource MyVisualElementStyle}">
    <Setter Property="BorderColor" Value="Navy" />
    <Setter Property="BorderWidth" Value="5" />
</Style>

<Style x:Key="MyEntryStyle" TargetType="Entry" BasedOn="{StaticResource MyVisualElementStyle}">
    <Setter Property="TextColor" Value="White" />
</Style>
```

## Style scope

Resources and styles defined on a XAML page are availalbe only to that specific page.

### Define application-level resources and styles

It's common to think of the views instances on Page as forming a tree-like structure. The application is at the root, with the pages, layout panels, and views spreading out below it. Each element in the tree can have its own dictionary that can contain resources.

The search algorithm in Xamarin.Forms walks up the visual tree. The search returns the first item found with a matching `x:Key` value.

You can define **application-level** resources and styles in the XAML file associated with your **Application class**:

```xml
<Application.Resources>
    <Color x:Key="MyTextColor">Blue</Color>
</Application.Resources>
```

In practice, most developers ignore the Resources property in views and layout panels. Instead, they use:

- `Page-level dictionaries` for things they use on a single page.
- `Aplication-level dictionaries` for Resources and styles they want to share across multiple pages.

The lookup process then needs to check only two dictionaries: the one in the current Page instance and the one in Application.

### Merge dictionaries

It's also possible to import dictionaries from one element to another. A dictionary imported from another dictionary is called a **merged dictionary**. Let's look at how to merge resource dictionaries:

```xml
<!-- AboutPage -->
<ContentPage ...>
    <Page.Resources>
        <x:Double x:Key="size">32</x:Double>
    </Page.Resources>
   ...
</ContentPage>
```

```xml
<!-- SettingsPage -->
<ContentPage ...>
    <Page.Resources>
        <ResourceDictionary MergedWith="theme:AboutPage" />
    </Page.Resources>
    ...
</ContentPage>
```

## Built-in styles

Xamarin.Forms maps the user's device-wide preferences to styles called built-in styles. It keeps those styles updated as the user changes their settings.

### Apply built-in style

The following code shows the Styles class and the string constants:

```cs
public static class Styles
{
    ...
    public static readonly string BodyStyleKey = "BodyStyle";
    public static readonly string CaptionStyleKey = "CaptionStyle";
    public static readonly string ListItemDetailTextStyleKey = "ListItemDetailTextStyle";
    public static readonly string ListItemTextStyleKey = "ListItemTextStyle";
    public static readonly string SubtitleStyleKey = "SubtitleStyle";
    public static readonly string TitleStyleKey = "TitleStyle";
}
```

```xml
<Label Text="Welcome" Style="{DynamicResource TitleStyle}" />
```

You must use `DynamicResource` to apply a built-in style because they can be changed at runtime if the user changes their preferences.

## How to use a built-in style as a base

`BaseResourceKey` is an alternative way to set the `BasedOn` property of a style. `BaseResourceKey` lets you use a built-in style as a base. It does a dynamic lookup that keeps the property values synchronized to the user's preferences.

The functionality of `BaseResourceKey` is analogous to `DynamicResource`. A link is maintained to the underlying style. When the style changes, the change propagates through to your derived style.

The use of `BaseResourceKey` isn't exclusive to built-in styles. You can use it with your own styles if needed. For example, suppose your base style was dynamically generated and it wasn't available at startup. Using `BasedOn` won't work, because `BasedOn` supports only `StaticResource`.

Another example is if you want your base style to change dynamically. Using `BaseResourceKey` will let you write code to remove or replace the base style in the dictionary. Your style will be updated automatically to use the new base.