# Dictionary Resources

Resources and styles defined on a XAML page are availalbe only to that specific page.

## Define application-level resources and styles

It's common to think of the views instances on Page as forming a tree-like structure. The application is at the root, with the pages, layout panels, and views spreading out below it. Each element in the tree can have its own dictionary that can contain resources.

The search algorithm in Xamarin.Forms walks up the visual tree. The search returns the first item found with a matching `x:Key` value.

You can define **application-level** resources and styles in the XAML file associated with your **Application class**:

```xml
<Application.Resources>
    <Color x:Key="MyTextColor">Blue</Color>
</Application.Resources>
```

```xml
<!-- can assign it globally, you have to set ApplyToDerivedTypes to true. Here is an example: -->
<Style TargetType="ContentPage" ApplyToDerivedTypes="True">
    <Setter Property="BackgroundColor" Value="{AppThemeBinding Light={StaticResource WhiteBlack}, Dark={StaticResource PrimaryBlack}}" />
</Style>
```

In practice, most developers ignore the Resources property in views and layout panels. Instead, they use:

- `Page-level dictionaries` for things they use on a single page.
- `Aplication-level dictionaries` for Resources and styles they want to share across multiple pages.

The lookup process then needs to check only two dictionaries: the one in the current Page instance and the one in Application.

## Merge Resource Dictionaries

Merged resource dictionaries combine one or more `ResourceDictionary` objects into another `ResourceDictionary`:


Resources: 

```xml
<!-- MyResources.xaml -->
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ResourceDictionary xmlns="http://xamarin.com/schemas/2014/forms" xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml">
    <Color x:Key="ExternalColor">Yellow</Color>
</ResourceDictionary>
```

```c#
// MyRsources.xaml.cs
using Xamarin.Forms;

namespace XFResourceDictionariesSample
{
    public partial class MyResources: ResourceDictionary {}
}
```

`MyResources.xaml` can be consumed by merging it into another resource dictionary:

```xml
<ContentPage ...>
    <ContentPage.Resources>
        <!-- Add more resources here -->
        <ResourceDictionary Source="MyResources.xaml" />
        <!-- Add more resources here -->
    </ContentPage.Resources>
    ...
</ContentPage>
```

## Cascading Scope

When merged ResourceDictionary resources share identical x:Key attribute values, Xamarin.Forms uses the following resource precedence:

1. The resources local to the resource dictionary.
1. The resources contained in the resource dictionaries that were merged via the MergedDictionaries collection, in the reverse order they are listed in the MergedDictionaries property.

## Stand Alone-Xaml Files

We can use stand-alone xaml file (wihout `.xaml.cs`), but by default, the linker will remove stand-alone XAML files from release builds when the linker behavior is set to link all assemblies. To ensure that stand-alone XAML files remain in a release build:

1. Add a custom Preserve attribute to the assembly containing the stand-alone XAML files: `[Xamarin.iOS.Foundation.Preserve]` either at the class-level or the member-level.
1. Set the Preserve attribute at the assembly level: `[assembly:Preserve(AllMembers = true)]`

## Split your styles into different files, instead of having them all in just one file
For example, if you have Colors, Global Elements, Converters, Explicit styles create a new file for each one and load them in your App.xaml file.

```xml
<Application xmlns="http://xamarin.com/schemas/2014/forms"
        xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
        x:Class="MyApp.App">
    <Application.Resources>
        <ResourceDictionary>
            <ResourceDictionary.MergedDictionaries>
                <local:Colors />
                <local:Converters />
                <local:Templates />
                <local:ExplicitStyles />
                <local:GlobalStyles />
            </ResourceDictionary.MergedDictionaries>
        </ResourceDictionary>
    </Application.Resources>
</Application>
```