# Memory Leaks

If an application doesn't free the allocated resource on memory after it is finished using it, it will create a memory leak because the same allocated memory is not being used by the application anymore.

## Manage Memory Leaks

Memory leaks must be managed. The following are a few common causes of memory leaks:

### Holding References to Managed Objects for a Long Time

If a managed object's references stay longer than necessary, performance counters can show a steady increase in memory consumption and an `OutOfMemoryException` may arise. This may happen due to a variable global scope, because GC can't destroy an active variable even though it’s not being used by an application anymore.

The developer needs to handle it by telling how long a variable can hold a reference and destroying it after it is no longer needed.

### Unable to manage unmanaged resource

Garbage collector cannot release the memory of unmanaged resource. The developer needs to explicitly release resources of unmanaged resources. To do that, the developer needs to implement an `IDisposable` interface on types which use unmanage resource. Otherwise, memory leaks occur.

### Static reference

If an object is referenced by a static field, then it will never be released. Such objects become long-lived. The developer needs to make sure unnecessary static field objects get destroyed when they're finished being used by the application.

### Event with missing unsubscription

If an event handler is subscribed (+=), the publisher of the event holds a reference to the subscriber via the event handler delegate (assuming the delegate is an instance method). If the publisher lives longer than the subscriber, then it will keep the subscriber alive even when there are no other references to the subscriber. This is the cause of memory leak when unsubscription of an event isn't defined.

If the developer unsubscribes (-=) from the event with an equal handler, it will remove the handler and manage memory leaks.