# The Pipeline

## Importing/Exporting

```powershell
PS C:\> get-process | export-csv c:\Proc.csv
PS C:\> get-process | converTo-csv | out-file c:\Proc.cvs

PS C:\> import-csv c:\Proc.csv
```

```powershell
PS C:\> get-process | export-clixml c:\Proc.xml
```

```powershell
PS C:\> get-process | converTo-html -Property Displayname, status | out-file c:\Proc.html
```

```powershell
PS C:\> get-process | out-file c:\Proc.text
```

## Displaying information

```powershell
PS C:\> get-process | out-gridview
PS C:\> get-process | showwindow
```

## Calculated properties

Since everything is an object in PowerShell, we can take advantage of structured data by calling properties instead of parsing strings. However, the property names and values that are returned by various sources are not always exactly how we'd like. But we can change property names and values coming from commands using the `Select-Object` cmdlet.

>💡 Calculated properties allow you to create new properties or change existing ones at run-time.

To modify the output with calculated properties requires a hashtable with a Name and an Expression key. The **name** key is the property name and the **Expression** key is a scriptblock that will be executed as `Select-Object` receives input. Below is an example of a calculated property `hashtable`.

```powershell
@{ Name = ''; Expression = {}}
```

### Example #1: rename properties

Let's say I need to add a property to the output of `Get-ChildItem` called `FromComputer` that specifies the computer these files came from. I can do this by using `FromComputer` as the Name value and some code to dynamically grab the computer name.

```powershell
PS C:\> Get-ChildItem | Select-Object -Property Name,Directory,@{ Name = 'FromComputer'; Expression = { hostname }}
```

### Example #2: Formatting output

In some cases, you may just want to tweak the output a little bit. Say you ran `Get-ChildItem` to get some items in a directory. One of the items is `Length`, which tells you the size of the file in bytes. What if I wanted that in kilobytes, though? Well, it’s not too hard. We’re going to use a calculated property, using `Select-Object`.

```powershell
PS C:\> Get-ChildItem c:\temp\demo | Select-Object -Property Name, @{label = 'FileSize'; expression = { $_.Length/1KB }}
```

So I’m selecting two properties. One is **Name**, and the other is a **calculated property**. A calculated property is basically a `hashtable` with two items in it: a `label`, which is the name of our calculated property, and `expression`, which is the scriptblock that defines our calculation.

In this case, the name of my calculated property is **FileSize**, and the calculation is “**the length of the item, divided by 1KB**”. In these calculations, `$_` basically refers to “*the item we’re looking at*”.
