# Filters

## The `$_,` symbol

`$_,` represents the output of a previous cmdlet that is being piped into a new cmdlet.

```powershell
PS C:\> Get-ChildItem -Path S:\ -Recurse | Where-Object {$_.LastWriteTime -gt "05/12/2015"}
```

`$_` has an alias: `$PSItem`

```powershell
PS C:\> Get-ChildItem -Path S:\ -Recurse | Where-Object {$PSItem.LastWriteTime -gt "05/12/2015"}
```

## Where-object

The `Where-Object` filters objects passed down the pipeline based on the search criteria you specify in a script block included with the cmdlet. In other words, the script block determines which objects are permitted to continue down the pipeline and which are not.

>`Where-Object` has two alias: `where` and `?`

Example:

```powershell
# PowerShell Where-Object filter to list the exe files C:\program Files
PS C:\> GCI "C:\Program Files" -recurse | Where-Object {$_.extension -eq ".exe"}
```

Because the `Where-Object` command is applied to every object as it passes down the pipeline, the `$_` symbol makes it possible to associate the specified property with each object, without having to know the number of objects being passed down the pipeline and without needing to differentiate between those objects.

```powershell
# PowerShell Where script to list exe files C:\Program Files

PS C:\> $GuyDir = "C:\Program Files"
PS C:\> $FilesExe = Get-ChildItem $GuyDir -recurse
PS C:\> $List = $FilesExe | ? {$_.extension -eq ".exe"}
PS C:\> $List | Sort-Object -unique | Format-Table name
```

### Comparison operators

- `-ne` (not equal to)
- `-lt` (less than)
- `-le` (less than or equal to)
- `-gt` (greater than)
- `-ge` (greater than or equal to)
- `-like` (like—a wildcard comparison)
- `-notlike` (not like—a wildcard comparison)
- `-contains` (contains the specified value)
- `-notcontains` (doesn't contain the specified value)

## Select-Object

The `Select-Object` cmdlet selects specified properties of an object or set of objects. It can also select unique objects, a specified number of objects, or objects in a specified position in an array.

>`Select-Object` has an alias: `select`

For example, suppose you want to view the DisplayName and Status properties of the *Background Intelligent Transfer Service* (BITS) on your machine. You can use the `Get-Service` cmdlet to get the information for BITS and pipe the results to `Select-Object` with those properties specified, like this:

```powershell
PS C:\> Get-Service bits | Select -Property DisplayName,Status
```

More examples:

```powershell
PS C:\> Get-Childitem | select-Object -Property Name, Directory
```

```powershell
PS C:\> Get-Process | Select-Object -Property ProcessName, CPU | Format-List
```

```powershell
PS C:\> Get-Process | select ProcessName, CPU | where CPU -gt 10 | Format-List
```

### When to use Select-Objects

Use `Select-Object` to determine which information in a result you are interested in. Here are three easy rules for its parameters:

Use `-Property *` when you want to see maximum information:

```powershell
PS C:\> Get-Process | Select-Object -Property *
```

Use `-Property a,b,c` to select more than one column:

```powershell
PS C:\> Get-Process | Select-Object -Property Name, Description, Company
```

Use `-ExpandProperty Column` to select exactly one column:

```powershell
PS C:\> Get-Process | Select-Object -ExpandProperty Name
```

### ExpandProperty

>💡`ExpandProperty` is part of the `Select-Object` cmdlet, and it’s used to expand properties into the PowerShell pipeline.

One of the problems many PowerShell beginners have is getting their heads around the idea of objects in the pipeline. They see the output of a command and try to do something with the text they see on the screen. Sometimes that text don't represent a single string, but an object or a collection. To use the value hide in that text you first need to *expand that property*.

For example:

`Get-Date | Select-Object -Property DayOfWeek` will return an object which has only one property `DayOfWeek` but NOT the content:

    ```powershell
    PS C:\> PS C:\Users\artur> get-date | select -Property DayOfWeek

    DayOfWeek
    ---------
    Saturday

    PS C:\Users\artur> get-date | select -Property DayOfWeek | gm
    # TypeName: Selected.System.DateTime (Object)
    ```

`Get-Date | Select-Object -ExpandProperty DayOfWeek` will return the String with the content of `DayOfWeek` property:

    ```powershell
    PS C:\Users\artur> get-date | select -expandProperty DayOfWeek
    Saturday

    PS C:\Users\artur> get-date | select -expandProperty DayOfWeek | gm
    # TypeName: System.DayOfWeek (String)
    ```

## `Select-Object` vs `Where-Object`

Both Select-Object and Where-Object (referred to by their aliases of select and where from now on) are both used to filter data.

It is important to know the way these 2 cmdlets are used.

Where is used to restrict the objects on the pipeline to those where one or more properties satisfy the filter criteria e.g.

```powershell
Get-Process | where CPU -gt 20
```

You get a reminder of this if you you use the full syntax

```powershell
Get-Process | where -FilterScript {$_.CPU -gt 20}
```

As a matter of style you very rarely see anyone using the parameter name `–FilterScript`.

Select is used to cut the number of properties on an object to just those you want to work with e.g.

```powershell
Get-Process | select Name, Id, CPU
```

If you want just those properties for the processes where CPU time is greater than 20 seconds you need to combine them on the pipeline:

```powershell
Get-Process | where CPU -gt 20 | select Name, Id, CPU
```

There isn’t a way to embed a where type filter in a select or vice versa. Keep it simple. Use the pipeline and let the cmdlets do the job for which they were designed.