# Parameters

## Accepting Parameters

In order to accept parameters you need to add to your script a `param block`, which simply is a comma separated list of variables:

```powershell
param (
    [string]$price = 100,
    [string]$ComputerName = $env:computername,
    [string]$username = $(throw "-username is required."),
    [string]$password = $( Read-Host -asSecureString "Input password" ),
    [switch]$SaveData = $false
)
write-output "The price is $price"
write-output "The Computer Name is $ComputerName"
write-output "The True/False switch argument is $SaveData"
```

Example, calling this script, and setting the switch parameter `-SaveData` to `$TRUE`:

```powershell
.\demo.ps1 -ComputerName "\\server64" -SaveData
```

>⚠ The `[switch]` data-type works just like a toggle. You normally set it to true or false respectively by providing or omitting the parameter.

### Parameter attributes

Parameter attributes allow you to control the features/function of a parameter such as making a specific parameter mandatory.

>💡 Don’t confuse the Parameter attribute with the Param keyword. The latter is used to just define parameters in simple and advanced functions.

In the next example, the Parameter attribute ensures that our parameter is mandatory:

```powershell
Function Make-Mandatory {
  Param(
        [Parameter(Mandatory)]
        $myParameter
        )
}
```

#### Parameter Validation Attributes

- `[CmdletBinding()]` turn a simple function into an **advanced function**, telling the powershell engine to add extra functionality common to all native Cmdlets to our functions.
- `[ValidateLength(1,15)]` — Allows for a computer name with a length of 1 to 15 characters.
- `[ValidatePattern(“[a-z]{6}\d{4}”)]` — Allows for a computer name that contains 6 characters followed by 4 digits.
- `[ValidateCount(1,3)]` — Allows for 1 to 3 computer names to be specified. It throws a validation error and does not run if the number of parameters is exceeded.
- `[ValidateRange(1,12)]` — Allows for an integer value of 1 to 12 to be provided. For example, this could be used for an input for a parameter `$Month`.
- `[ValidateScript({})]` parameter validation attribute allows you to define your own **custom parameter validation**. To pass validation, the script block must evaluate to `$True`. To represent the current value of the parameter being passed in, use `$_`.

    ```powershell
    [ValidateScript({Resolve-DNSName -Name $_})]
    ```

## $args

Within a script or function you can refer to unnamed arguments using the `$args` array, for example passing all the arguments through to a cmdlet. You can also refer to specific arguments by their position:

```powershell
"First argument is " + $Args[0]
"Second argument is " + $Args[1]
```

So if you call the script above like `./demoscript.ps1` "Alpha" "Beta", it will return:

```powershell
First argument is Alpha
Second argument is Beta
```