# Diagnostics

How do you tackle such a situation in which an application is in a Production environment and the user faces some errors or performance-related issues regarding an application or how to trace down where the problem is occurring? Diagnostics helps you to tackle such a situation, because Debugging is not handy for a
production environment.

Debugging helps you in Debug mode, which we normally use in a development phase where we can find out errors and correct them; but if the same thing happens after the release of an application or when an application is in real use, then we can diagnose our application to tackle such problems. Although remote debugging is possible (which you can do for your application, but the application must be hosted), it means you can’t do debugging for your offline applications. Also, for remote debugging there must be a Debug Mode while publishing the application, which is not preferable for releasing the application.
To diagnose an application, we normally do Instrumenting of our application, in which different approaches can be used.

## Instrumenting an Application

To instrument an application, features of diagnostics are added into it to study its behavior. Features of diagnostics means to add code for logging and tracing or to monitor applications’ health. This makes you able to trace the program execution (i.e., what error occurred at which location in code) and gives the reason of performance-related problems without doing debugging.

There are some ways to instrument your application to perform diagnostics:

1. Logging and Tracing
2. Profiling the Application
3. Create and monitor performance counters.