# Assembly Names

The CLR supports two different types of assemblies: **strong-named assemblies** and **regular assemblies**.

A regular assembly is what Visual Studio generates for you by default. It’s structurally identical to a **strong-named** assembly. They both contain metadata, header, manifest, and all the
types that are in your assembly.
A **strong-named** assembly is signed with a public/private key pair that uniquely identifies the publisher of the assembly and the content of the assembly.

## Assembly's Strong name

A strong name consists of the assembly's simple text name, version number, and culture information (if provided), plus a public key and a digital signature:

* Its simple name
* Its version (“0.0.0.0” if not present)
* Its culture (“neutral” if not a satellite)
* Its public key token (“null” if not strongly named)

```csharp
simple-name, Version=version, Culture=culture, PublicKeyToken=public-key
```

The runtime uses this information to locate the assembly and differentiate it from other assemblies with the same name. For example, a strong-named assembly called `myTypes` could have the following fully qualified name:

```csharp
myTypes, Version=1.0.1234.0, Culture=en-US, PublicKeyToken=b77a5c561934e089c, ProcessorArchitecture=msil
```

The version number comes from the `AssemblyVersion attribute`. It’s a string divided into four parts as follows:

```csharp
major.minor.build.revision
```

You can specify a version number as follows:

```csharp
[assembly: AssemblyVersion ("2.5.6.7")]
```

If the assembly has no AssemblyVersion attribute, the version appears as “0.0.0.0”. If it is unsigned, its public key token appears as “null”.

An Assembly object’s FullName property returns its fully qualified name. The compiler always uses fully qualified names when recording assembly references in the manifest.

## Benefits

Strongly naming an assembly has several benefits:

* **Strong names guarantee uniqueness**. Your unique private key is used to generate the name for your assembly. No other assembly can have the exact same strong name.
* **Strong names protect your versioning lineage**. Because you control the private key, you are the only one who can distribute updates to your assemblies. Users can be sure that the new version originates from the same publisher.
* **Strong names provide a strong integrity check**. The .NET Framework sees whether a strong-named assembly has changed since the moment it was signed.

Strong-naming an assembly creates a unique identity for the assembly... but, do NOT rely on strong-naming for **security**.