# Introduction to LINQ

> [Curso](https://mva.microsoft.com/en-US/training-courses/language-integrated-query-linq-17755?l=rfrAg1H3D_1211787177#) de MS

LINQ (Language Integrated Query) is a way to query different types of data sources that support `IEnumerable<T>` or `IQueryable<T>`. It offers an easy and elegant way to access or manipulate data from a database object, XML document, and in-memory objects.

To support LINQ, a few language features have been added to C#:

* Implicitly typed variables (var)
* Object initialization syntax
* Lambda expressions
* Extension methods
* Anonymous types

## Types of LINQ

LINQ operates with a different data source and, due to its working with these data sources, it is classified into the following types:

### LINQ to Object

LINQ to Object provides the support for interaction with in-memory .NET objects that are implemented by an `IEnumerable<T>` interface.

### LINQ to Entities

LINQ to Entities provides the support for interaction with a relational database using an ADO.NET Entity Framework. It’s more flexible than LINQ to SQL, but complex. It facilitates different data providers, such as Oracle, My SQL, MS SQL, etc.

### LINQ to Dataset

LINQ to Dataset provides the support for interaction with an in-memory cache of data in an easy and faster way.

### LINQ to SQL

LINQ to SQL, also known as DLINQ, provides the support for interaction with a relation database as objects.

### LINQ to XML

LINQ to XML, also known as XLINQ, provides the support for interaction with XML documents, i.e., to load XML documents, and to perform queries like read, filter, modify, add node, etc., in XML data.

### Parallel LINQ

Parallel LINQ, also known as PLINQ, provides the support for Parallel working of LINQ.
We will use LINQ to Object to elaborate the topic “Working with LINQ Queries” and for explicit elaboration of “LINQ to XML” as a topic.