# Tag Helpers

## Overview

Tag Helpers provide us with means to change and enhance existing HTML tags in our views. Therefore, we add them to our views, and afterwards, they are processed by the Razor Templating engine which in return creates an HTML and serves it to the browser.

They make working with HTML while using the power of Razor and C# so simple and HTML friendly. Since using Tag Helpers feels so natural and looks like regular HTML front-end people can also quickly jump in and change things without learning about C#. Also, they get to have nice IntelliSense support within the scope of existing elements.

It is important to know that all built-in Tag Helpers are prefixed with `asp-` prefix.

For example, the `asp-for` attribute extracts the name of the specified model property into the rendered HTML:

```csharp
// with the following model:

public class Movie
{
    public int ID { get; set; }
    public string Title { get; set; }
    public DateTime ReleaseDate { get; set; }
    public string Genre { get; set; }
    public decimal Price { get; set; }
}

// The following Razor markup:

<label asp-for="Movie.Title"></label>

// Generates the following HTML:

<label for="Movie_Title">Title</label>

```

## Tag Helper Scope

Tag Helpers scope is controlled by a combination of `@addTagHelper`, `@removeTagHelper`, and the `"!"` opt-out character.

### `@addTagHelper`

Adding the `@addTagHelper` directive to the `Views/_ViewImports.cshtml` file makes the Tag Helper available to all view files in the Views directory and subdirectories.

```csharp
// Views/_ViewImports.cshtml file

@addTagHelper *, Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.TagHelpers
@addTagHelper *, AuthoringTagHelpers
```

#### Fully qualified name

You can provide the fully qualified name (`FQN`) of the Tag Helper. To add a Tag Helper to a view using an FQN, you first add the FQN (`AuthoringTagHelpers.TagHelpers.EmailTagHelper`), and then the assembly name (`AuthoringTagHelpers`).

```csharp
@using AuthoringTagHelpers
@addTagHelper *, Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.TagHelpers
@addTagHelper AuthoringTagHelpers.TagHelpers.EmailTagHelper, AuthoringTagHelpers
```

Most developers prefer to use the "`*`" wildcard syntax. For example, any of the following directives will bring in the EmailTagHelper:

```csharp
@addTagHelper AuthoringTagHelpers.TagHelpers.E*, AuthoringTagHelpers
@addTagHelper AuthoringTagHelpers.TagHelpers.Email*, AuthoringTagHelpers
```

#### Controlling Tag Helper scope with the `_ViewImports.cshtml` file

You can add a `_ViewImports.cshtml` to any view folder, and the view engine applies the directives from both that file and the `Views/_ViewImports.cshtml` file.

The `_ViewImports.cshtml` file is additive, any `@addTagHelper` directives you add to the `Views/Home/_ViewImports.cshtml` file (that are not in the default `Views/_ViewImports.cshml` file) would expose those Tag helpers to views only in the Home folder.

### `@removeTagHelper`

The `@removeTagHelper` has the same two parameters as `@addTagHelper`, and it removes a Tag Helper that was previously added. For example, `@removeTagHelper` applied to a specific view removes the specified Tag Helper from the view. Using `@removeTagHelper` in a `Views/Folder/_ViewImports.cshtml` file removes the specified Tag Helper from all of the views in Folder.

### Opting out of individual elements

You can disable a Tag Helper at the element level with the Tag Helper opt-out character ("`!`").

```csharp
<!span asp-validation-for="Email" class="text-danger"></!span>
```

You must apply the Tag Helper opt-out character to the opening and closing tag. After you add the opt-out character, the element and Tag Helper attributes are no longer displayed in a distinctive font.