# Connecting to a Database

## Data Providers

The .NET framework allows you to work with different types of databases, for example, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, and MySQL database.

**Data Providers** are used for connecting to a database, executing a command, and retrieving a result. For example, if you want to work with an MS SQL server database, .NET gives you a Data Provider for this, i.e., the `System.Data.SqlClient` namespace (provides data access for Microsoft SQL server database) and the `System.Data.OleDb` namespace. `System.Data.dll` provides different Data providers to work with different databases.

The .NET Framework Data Providers are components that have been explicitly designed for data manipulation and fast, forward-only, read-only access to data.

In ADO.NET you use a `Connection` object to connect to a specific data source by supplying necessary authentication information in a connection string. The Connection object you use depends on the type of data source.

Each .NET Framework data provider included with the .NET Framework has a `DbConnection` object: `OleDbConnection` object, `SqlConnection` object, `OdbcConnection` object, and `OracleConnection` object.

Because the `DbConnection` class uses a real, unmanaged database connection, it’s important to make sure that you properly close the connection when you’re finished with it. Because of this, the `DbConnection` class implements `IDisposable`, so you can deterministically close the connection and free any associated unmanaged objects.

## Establishing Connection

The following code example demonstrates how to create and open a connection to a SQL Server database.

Sql:

```csharp
// Assumes connectionString is a valid connection string.
using (SqlConnection connection = new SqlConnection(connectionString))
{
    connection.Open();
    // Do work here.
}
```

Ole db:

```csharp
// Assumes connectionString is a valid connection string.
using (OleDbConnection connection = new OleDbConnection(connectionString))
{
    connection.Open();
    // Do work here.
}
```

Odbc:

```csharp
// Assumes connectionString is a valid connection string.
using (OdbcConnection connection = new OdbcConnection(connectionString))
{
    connection.Open();
    // Do work here.
}
```

Oracle:

```csharp
// Assumes connectionString is a valid connection string.
using (OracleConnection connection = new OracleConnection(connectionString))
{
    connection.Open();
    // Do work here.
}
OracleConnection nwindConn = new OracleConnection("Data Source=MyOracleServer;Integrated Security=yes;");
nwindConn.Open();
```

## Connection Events

You can retrieve warnings and informational messages from a SQL Server data source using the `InfoMessage` event of the `SqlConnection` object.

The `InfoMessage` event receives an `SqlInfoMessageEventArgs` object containing, in its Errors property, a collection of the messages from the data source. You can query the Error objects in this collection for the error number and message text, as well as the source of the error.

## Connection Strings in ADO.NET

A connection string contains initialization information that is passed as a parameter from a data provider to a data source. The data provider receives the connection string as the value of the `DbConnection.ConnectionString` property. The provider parses the connection string and ensures that the syntax is correct and that the keywords are supported. Then the `DbConnection.Open()` method passes the parsed connection parameters to the data source. The data source performs further validation and establishes a connection.

Example:

```csharp
private static void OpenSqlConnection()
{
    string connectionString = GetConnectionString();

    using (SqlConnection connection = new SqlConnection())
    {
        connection.ConnectionString = connectionString;

        connection.Open();

        Console.WriteLine("State: {0}", connection.State);
        Console.WriteLine("ConnectionString: {0}",
            connection.ConnectionString);
    }
}

static private string GetConnectionString()
{
    // To avoid storing the connection string in your code, 
    // you can retrieve it from a configuration file.
    return "Data Source=MSSQL1;Initial Catalog=AdventureWorks;"
        + "Integrated Security=true;";
}
```

### Connection string syntax

A connection string is a semicolon-delimited list of key/value parameter pairs.

Example:

```csharp
"Persist Security Info=False;Integrated Security=true;Initial Catalog=Northwind;server=(local)"
```

The basic format of a connection string is a series of _key/value_ pairs connected by an equal sign `(=)`, all separated by semicolons `(;)`.

The connection string consists of the following parts:

1. *Data Source* – This is the name of the server on which the database resides.
2. *The Initial Catalog* is used to specify the name of the database
3. *The UserID and Password* are the credentials required to connect to the database.

## Connection String Builders

In earlier versions of ADO.NET, compile-time checking of connection strings with concatenated string values did not occur, so that at runtime, an incorrect keyword generated an `ArgumentException`.

To address this problem, ADO.NET 2.0 introduced new connection string builders for each .NET Framework data provider:

| Provider                 | ConnectionStringBuilder class                          |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `System.Data.SqlClient`    | `System.Data.SqlClient.SqlConnectionStringBuilder`       |
| `System.Data.OleDb`        | `System.Data.OleDb.OleDbConnectionStringBuilder`         |
| `System.Data.Odbc`         | `System.Data.Odbc.OdbcConnectionStringBuilder`           |
| `System.Data.OracleClient` | `System.Data.OracleClient.OracleConnectionStringBuilder` |

The connection string builder classes are designed to eliminate guesswork and protect against syntax errors and security vulnerabilities.

The following example demonstrates how the `SqlConnectionStringBuilder` handles an inserted extra value for the Initial Catalog setting.

```csharp
System.Data.SqlClient.SqlConnectionStringBuilder builder =  
  new System.Data.SqlClient.SqlConnectionStringBuilder();  
builder["Data Source"] = "(local)";  
builder["integrated Security"] = true;  
builder["Initial Catalog"] = "AdventureWorks;NewValue=Bad";  
Console.WriteLine(builder.ConnectionString);

// data source=(local);Integrated Security=True;  
// initial catalog="AdventureWorks;NewValue=Bad"
```

### Building Connection Strings from Configuration Files

If certain elements of a connection string are known beforehand, they can be stored in a configuration file and retrieved at run time to construct a complete connection string.

One of the overloaded constructors for a connection string builder takes a String as an argument, which enables you to supply a partial connection string that can then be completed from user input. The partial connection string can be stored in a configuration file and retrieved at run time.

Example:

```csharp
<connectionStrings>  
  <clear/>  
  <add name="partialConnectString"   
    connectionString="Initial Catalog=Northwind;"  
    providerName="System.Data.SqlClient" />  
</connectionStrings>
```

```csharp
private static void BuildConnectionString(string dataSource,
    string userName, string userPassword)
{
    // Retrieve the partial connection string named databaseConnection
    // from the application's app.config or web.config file.
    ConnectionStringSettings settings = ConfigurationManager.ConnectionStrings["partialConnectString"];

    if (null != settings)
    {
        // Retrieve the partial connection string.
        string connectString = settings.ConnectionString;
        Console.WriteLine("Original: {0}", connectString);

        // Create a new SqlConnectionStringBuilder based on the
        // partial connection string retrieved from the config file.
        SqlConnectionStringBuilder builder =
            new SqlConnectionStringBuilder(connectString);

        // Supply the additional values.
        builder.DataSource = dataSource;
        builder.UserID = userName;
        builder.Password = userPassword;
        Console.WriteLine("Modified: {0}", builder.ConnectionString);
    }
}
```

## Connection pooling

Connecting to a database is a time-consuming operation. Having a connection open for too long is also a problem because it can lead to other users not being able to connect. To minimize the costs of repeatedly opening and closing connections, ADO.NET applies an optimization that’s called connection pooling.

When using SQL Server, a pool of connections is maintained by your application. When a new connection is requested, the .NET Framework checks to see whether there is an open connection in the pool. If there is one, it doesn’t have to open a new connection and do all the initial setup steps. By default, connection pooling is enabled, which can give you a huge performance improvement.