# Serialization and Deserialization

Serialization is the process of converting an object into a stream of bytes to store the object or transmit it to memory, a database, or a file. Its main purpose is to save the state of an object in order to be able to recreate it when needed. The reverse process is called deserialization.

Serialization allows the developer to save the state of an object and recreate it as needed, providing storage of objects as well as data exchange. Through serialization, a developer can perform actions like sending the object to a remote application by means of a Web Service, passing an object from one domain to another, passing an object through a firewall as an XML string, or maintaining security or user-specific information across applications.

## Serialization Engines

The .NET Framework provides classes to help you to serialize and deserialize the object and also offers you ways to configure your own objects. By default, there are three serialization/deserialization mechanisms provided by .NET Framework:

1. Binary serializer
2. Xml Serializer
3. DataContractSerialize
4. The IXmlSerializable interface

### Data contract serializer

The data contract serializer is the newest and the most versatile of the three serialization engines and is used by WCF.

The data contract serializer supports a data contract model that helps you decouple the low-level details of the types you want to serialize from the structure of the serialized data. This provides excellent version tolerance, meaning you can deserialize data that was serialized from an earlier or later version of a type. You can even dese‐
rialize types that have been renamed or moved to a different assembly.

The data contract serializer can cope with most object graphs, although it can require more assistance than the binary serializer. It can also be used as a general purpose tool for reading/writing XML files, if you’re flexible on how the XML is structured. (If you need to store data in attributes or cope with XML elements pre‐
senting in a random order, you cannot use the data contract serializer).

### Binary serialization

Binary serialization serializes an object or data or object graph in binary format. The binary serialization engine is easy to use, highly automatic, and well supported throughout the .NET Framework. However, it tightly couples a type’s internal structure to the format of the serialized data, resulting in poor version tolerance.

### XML serialization

The XML serialization engine can only produce XML, and it is less powerful than other engines in saving and restoring a complex object graph (it cannot restore shared object references). It’s the most flexible of the three, however, in following an arbitrary XML structure. For instance, you can choose whether properties are serialized to elements or attributes and the handling of a collection’s outer element. The XML engine also provides excellent version tolerance.

### IXmlSerializable

Implementing IXmlSerializable means to do the serialization yourself with an `XmlReader` and `XmlWriter`. The `IXmlSerializable` interface is recognized both by `XmlSerializer` and by the data contract serializer, so it can be used selectively to handle the more complicated types.