# React Overview

React applications are made out of components that display views.

## Rendering Views

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';

// This is just an example, switch to app.js for the exercise.
ReactDOM.render(<h1>Hello world</h1>, document.getElementById('app'));
```

- `ReactDOM.render()` is the most common way to render JSX. It takes a JSX expression, creates a corresponding tree of DOM nodes, and adds that tree to the DOM.

  - The 1st argument should always be a JSX expression, and it will be rendered to the screen.
  - The first argument is appended to whatever element is selected by the second argument.

## Virtual DOM

In React, for every DOM object, there is a corresponding “virtual DOM object.” A virtual DOM object is a representation of a DOM object. It has the same properties as a real DOM object, but it lacks the real thing’s power to directly change what’s on the screen.

- When you render a JSX element, every single virtual DOM object gets updated. This sounds incredibly inefficient, but the cost is insignificant because the virtual DOM can update so quickly.

- Once the virtual DOM has updated, then React compares the virtual DOM with a virtual DOM snapshot that was taken right before the update. By comparing the new virtual DOM with a pre-update version, React figures out exactly which virtual DOM objects have changed. This process is called **diffing**.

- Once React knows which virtual DOM objects have changed, then React updates those objects, and only those objects, on the real DOM.