# Props

Most components can be customized when they are created, with different parameters. These creation parameters are called props. A component must never modify its own props. `props` are read-only.

## Pass a prop to a component

You can pass this information by giving that component an attribute:

```jsx
<MyComponent foo="bar" />
```

If you want to pass information that isn’t a string, then wrap that information in curly braces. Here’s how you would pass an array:

```jsx
<Greeting myInfo={["top", "secret", "lol"]} />
```

## Access and display a passed-in prop

In a functional stateless component, the props are received in the function signature as arguments:

```jsx
render() {
  return <h1>{this.props.foo}</h1>;
}
```

## this.props.children

Every component’s props object has a property named **children**.

`this.props.children` will return everything in between a component’s opening and closing JSX tags.

So far, all of the components that you’ve seen have been self-closing tags, such as `<MyComponentClass />`. They don’t have to be! You could write `<MyComponentClass></MyComponentClass>`, and it would still work.

`this.props.children` would return everything in between `<MyComponentClass>` and `</MyComponentClass>`.

Example:

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { LilButton } from './LilButton';

class BigButton extends React.Component {
  render() {
    console.log(this.props.children);
    return <button>Yo I am big</button>;
  }
}


// Example 1
<BigButton>
  I am a child of BigButton.
</BigButton>


// Example 2
<BigButton>
  <LilButton />
</BigButton>


// Example 3
<BigButton />
```

- In Example 1, `<BigButton>`‘s `this.props.children` would equal the text, “I am a child of BigButton.”
- In Example 2, `<BigButton>`‘s `this.props.children` would equal a `<LilButton />` component.
- In Example 3, `<BigButton>`‘s `this.props.children` would equal undefined.

If a component has more than one child between its JSX tags, then `this.props.children` will return those children in an array. However, if a component has only one child, then `this.props.children` will return the single child, not wrapped in an array.

## defaultProps

You can give a prop a default value.

```jsx
class Example extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <h1>{this.props.text}</h1>;
  }
}

Example.defaultProps = { text: "yo" };
```

- If an `<Example />` doesn’t get passed any text, then it will display “yo.”
- If an `<Example />` does get passed some text, then it will display that passed-in text.

## A curmudgeonly clarification about grammar

You may have noticed some loose usage of the words prop and props. Unfortunately, this is pretty inevitable.

**props** is the name of the object that stores passed-in information. `this.props` refers to that storage object. At the same time, each piece of passed-in information is called a **prop**. This means that props could refer to two pieces of passed-in information, or it could refer to the object that stores those pieces of information :(
