# Promises

Promises are objects that represent the eventual outcome of an asynchronous operation.

A Promise object can be in one of three states:

- **Pending**: The initial state— the operation has not completed yet.
- **Fulfilled**: The operation has completed successfully and the promise now has a resolved value.
- **Rejected**: The operation has failed and the promise has an Error of some kind.

We refer to a promise as **settled** if it is no longer pending— it is either fulfilled or rejected.

## Constructing a Promise

```javascript
const executorFunction = (resolve, reject) => {};
const myFirstPromise = new Promise(executorFunction);
```

The Promise constructor method takes a function parameter called **the executor function** which runs automatically when the constructor is called. The executor function generally starts an asynchronous operation and dictates how the promise should be settled.

The executor function has two function parameters, usually referred to as the `resolve()` and `reject()` functions. The `resolve()` and `reject()` functions aren’t defined by the programmer. When the Promise constructor runs, JavaScript will pass its own `resolve()` and `reject()` functions into the executor function.

- **resolve** is a function with one argument. Under the hood, if invoked, `resolve()` will change the promise’s status from pending to **fulfilled**, and the promise’s resolved value will be set to the argument passed into `resolve()`.
- **reject** is a function that takes a reason or error as an argument. Under the hood, if invoked, `reject()` will change the promise’s status from pending to **rejected**, and the promise’s rejection reason will be set to the argument passed into `reject()`.

Let’s look at an example executor function in a Promise constructor:

```javascript
const executorFunction = (resolve, reject) => {
  if (someCondition) {
    resolve("I resolved!");
  } else {
    reject("I rejected!");
  }
};
const myFirstPromise = new Promise(executorFunction);
```

Short Version:

```javascript
const myFirstPromise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
  if (someCondition) {
    resolve("I resolved!");
  } else {
    reject("I rejected!");
  }
});
```

## Consuming Promises

The initial state of an asynchronous promise is pending, but we have a guarantee that it will settle. Promise objects come with an aptly named `.then()` method. It allows us to say, “I have a promise, when it settles, then here’s what I want to happen…”

`.then()` is a higher-order function— it takes two callback functions as arguments. We refer to these callbacks as handlers. When the promise settles, the appropriate handler will be invoked with that settled value.

- The first handler, sometimes called **onFulfilled**, is a success handler, and it should contain the logic for the promise resolving.
- The second handler, sometimes called **onRejected**, is a failure handler, and it should contain the logic for the promise rejecting.

We can invoke `.then()` with **one**, **both**, or **neither** handler. If the appropriate handler is not provided, instead of throwing an error, `.then()` will just return a promise with the same settled value as the promise it was called on. One important feature of `.then()` is that it always returns a promise.

- Example #1:

  ```javascript
  let promise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    let num = Math.random();
    if (num < .5 ){
      resolve('Yay!');
    } else {
      reject('Ohhh noooo!');
    }
  });

  const handleSuccess = (resolvedValue) => {
    console.log(resolvedValue);
  };

  const handleFailure = (rejectionReason) => {
    console.log(rejectionReason);
  };

  promise.then(handleSuccess, handleFailure);
  ```

- Example #2:

  ```Javascript
  const myPromise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
      if (Math.random() * 100 < 90) {
          console.log('resolving the promise ...');
          resolve('Hello, Promises!');
      }
      reject(new Error('In 10% of the cases, I fail. Miserably.'));
  });

  // we create two handlers
  const onResolved = (resolvedValue) => console.log(resolvedValue);
  const onRejected = (error) => console.log(error);

  // and we use them as parameters
  myPromise.then(onResolved, onRejected);

  // Same as above, written concisely
  myPromise.then((resolvedValue) => {
      console.log(resolvedValue);
  }, (error) => {
      console.log(error);
  });

  // Output (in 90% of the cases)

  // resolving the promise ...
  // Hello, Promises!
  // Hello, Promises!
  ```

## Errors: Catching Promises

Remember, `.then()` will return a promise with the same settled value as the promise it was called on if no appropriate handler was provided. This implementation allows us to separate our resolved logic from our rejected logic. Instead of passing both handlers into one `.then()`, we can chain a second `.then()` with a failure handler to a first `.then()` with a success handler and both cases will be handled.

```javascript
promise
  .then((resolvedValue) => {
    console.log(resolvedValue);
  })
  .then(null, (rejectionReason) => {
    console.log(rejectionReason);
  });
```

To create even more readable code, we can use a different promise function: `.catch()`.

The `.catch()` function takes only one argument, **onRejected**. In the case of a rejected promise, this failure handler will be invoked with the reason for rejection. Using `.catch()` accomplishes the same thing as using a `.then()` with only a failure handler:

```javascript
promise
  .then((resolvedValue) => {
    console.log(resolvedValue);
  })
  .catch((rejectionReason) => {
    console.log(rejectionReason);
  });
```

## Chaining Promises

One common pattern we’ll see with asynchronous programming is multiple operations which depend on each other to execute or that must be executed in a certain order. We might make one request to a database and use the data returned to us to make another request and so on. Let’s illustrate this with another cleaning example, washing clothes:

We take our dirty clothes and put them in the washing machine. If the clothes are cleaned, then we’ll want to put them in the dryer. After the dryer runs, if the clothes are dry, then we can fold them and put them away.

This process of chaining promises together is called **composition**. Promises are designed with composition in mind. Here’s a simple promise chain in code:

```javascript
firstPromiseFunction()
.then((firstResolveVal) => {
  return secondPromiseFunction(firstResolveVal);
})
.then((secondResolveVal) => {
  console.log(secondResolveVal);
});
```

Let’s break down what’s happening in the example:

- We invoke a function `firstPromiseFunction()` which returns a promise.
- We invoke `.then()` with an anonymous function as the success handler.
- Inside the success handler we return a new promise— the result of invoking a second function, `secondPromiseFunction()` with the first promise’s resolved value.
- We invoke a second `.then()` to handle the logic for the second promise settling.
- Inside that `.then()`, we have a success handler which will log the second promise’s resolved value to the console.

In order for our chain to work properly, we had to return the promise `secondPromiseFunction(firstResolveVal)`. This ensured that the return value of the first `.then()` was our second promise rather than the default return of a new promise with the same settled value as the initial.

Let’s write some promise chains!

## Using Promise.all()

`Promise.all()` accepts an array of promises as its argument and returns a single promise. That single promise will settle in one of two ways:

- If every promise in the argument array resolves, the single promise returned from `Promise.all()` will resolve with an array containing the resolve value from each promise in the argument array.
- If any promise from the argument array rejects, the single promise returned from `Promise.all()` will immediately reject with the reason that promise rejected. This behavior is sometimes referred to as failing fast.

Example:

```javascript
let myPromises = Promise.all([returnsPromOne(), returnsPromTwo(), returnsPromThree()]);

myPromises
  .then((arrayOfValues) => {
    console.log(arrayOfValues);
  })
  .catch((rejectionReason) => {
    console.log(rejectionReason);
  });
```

Let’s break down what’s happening:

- We declare myPromises assigned to invoking `Promise.all()`.
- We invoke `Promise.all()` with an array of three promises— the returned values from functions.
- We invoke `.then()` with a success handler which will print the array of resolved values if each promise resolves successfully.
- We invoke `.catch()` with a failure handler which will print the first rejection message if any promise rejects.