# Async / await

## Introduction

Often in web development, we need to handle asynchronous actions— actions we can wait on while moving on to other tasks. We make requests to networks, databases, or any number of similar operations. JavaScript is non-blocking: instead of stopping the execution of code while it waits, JavaScript uses an event-loop which allows it to efficiently execute other tasks while it awaits the completion of these asynchronous actions.

Originally, JavaScript used callback functions to handle asynchronous actions. The problem with callbacks is that they encourage complexly nested code which quickly becomes difficult to read, debug, and scale. With ES6, JavaScript integrated native promises which allow us to write significantly more readable code. JavaScript is continually improving, and ES8 provides a new syntax for handling our asynchronous action, `async...await`. The async...await syntax allows us to write asynchronous code that reads similarly to traditional synchronous, imperative programs.

The `async...await` syntax is syntactic sugar— it doesn’t introduce new functionality into the language, but rather introduces a new syntax for using promises and generators. Both of these were already built in to the language. Despite this, `async...await` powerfully improves the readability and scalability of our code. Let’s learn how to use it!

## async Syntax

```javascript
async function myFunc() {
  // Function body here
};

myFunc();
```

```javascript
const myFunc = async () => {
  // Function body here
};

myFunc();
```

**async** functions always return a **promise**. This means we can use traditional promise syntax, like `.then()` and `.catch` with our async functions. An async function will return in one of three ways:

- If there’s nothing returned from the function, it will return a promise with a resolved value of **undefined**.
- If there’s a non-promise value returned from the function, it will return a promise resolved to that **value**.
- If a promise is returned from the function, it will simply return that **promise**

```javascript
async function fivePromise() {
  return 5;
}

fivePromise()
.then(resolvedValue => {
    console.log(resolvedValue);
  })  // Prints 5
```

In the example above, even though we return 5 inside the function body, what’s actually returned when we invoke `fivePromise()` is a promise with a resolved value of **5**.

## await syntax

We covered the async keyword. By itself, it doesn’t do much; async functions are almost always used with the additional keyword **await** inside the function body.

The await keyword can only be used inside an async function. await is an operator: it returns the resolved value of a promise. Since promises resolve in an indeterminate amount of time, await halts, or pauses, the execution of our async function until a given promise is resolved.

In most situations, we’re dealing with promises that were returned from functions. Generally, these functions are through a library, and, in this lesson, we’ll be providing them. We can await the resolution of the promise it returns inside an async function. In the example below, `myPromise()` is a function that returns a promise which will resolve to the string "I am resolved now!".

```javascript
async function asyncFuncExample(){
  let resolvedValue = await myPromise();
  console.log(resolvedValue);
}

asyncFuncExample(); // Prints: I am resolved now!
```

Within our async function, `asyncFuncExample()`, we use await to halt our execution until `myPromise()` is resolved and assign its resolved value to the variable resolvedValue. Then we log resolvedValue to the console. We’re able to handle the logic for a promise in a way that reads like synchronous code.

## Handling Dependent Promises

The true beauty of `async...await` is when we have a series of asynchronous actions which depend on one another. For example, we may make a network request based on a query to a database. In that case, we would need to wait to make the network request until we had the results from the database. With native promise syntax, we use a chain of `.then()` functions making sure to return correctly each one:

```javascript
function nativePromiseVersion() {
    returnsFirstPromise()
    .then((firstValue) => {
        console.log(firstValue);
        return returnsSecondPromise(firstValue);
    })
   .then((secondValue) => {
        console.log(secondValue);
    });
}
```

Here’s how we’d write an async function to accomplish the same thing:

```javascript
async function asyncAwaitVersion() {
 let firstValue = await returnsFirstPromise();
 console.log(firstValue);
 let secondValue = await returnsSecondPromise(firstValue);
 console.log(secondValue);
}
```

Though using the `async...await` syntax can save us some typing, the length reduction isn’t the main point. Given the two versions of the function, the `async...await` version more closely resembles synchronous code, which helps developers maintain and debug their code. The `async...await` syntax also makes it easy to store and refer to resolved values from promises further back in our chain which is a much more difficult task with native promise syntax.

## Handling Errors

When `.catch()` is used with a long promise chain, there is no indication of where in the chain the error was thrown. This can make debugging challenging.

With `async...await`, we use `try...catch` statements for error handling. By using this syntax, not only are we able to handle errors in the same way we do with synchronous code, but we can also catch both synchronous and asynchronous errors. This makes for easier debugging!

```javascript
async function usingTryCatch() {
 try {
   let resolveValue = await asyncFunction('thing that will fail');
   let secondValue = await secondAsyncFunction(resolveValue);
 } catch (err) {
   // Catches any errors in the try block
   console.log(err);
 }
}

usingTryCatch();
```

Remember, since async functions return promises we can still use native promise’s .catch() with an async function

```javascript
async function usingPromiseCatch() {
   let resolveValue = await asyncFunction('thing that will fail');
}

let rejectedPromise = usingPromiseCatch();
rejectedPromise.catch((rejectValue) => {
console.log(rejectValue);
})
```

This is sometimes used in the global scope to catch final errors in complex code.