# Binary Streams

Binary streams, as their name suggests, work with binary (raw) data. The main classes that we use to read and write from and to binary streams are: FileStream, BinaryReader and BinaryWriter.

## FileStream

The `FileStream` class reads and writes to files. You need to create a `FileStream` object to create a new file or open an existing file.

The syntax for creating a `FileStream` object is as follows:

```csharp
FileStream <object_name> = new FileStream(<File_Name>,<FileMode>,<FileAccess>,<FileShare>)
```

**File_Name**: is the name of a file on which an operation will perform.
**FileMode**: is an enumeration that gives a different method to open the file:

1. `Append`: It Creates the file if the file does not exist and, if it exists, it puts the cursor at the end of the file.
2. `Create`: Creates a new file and, if the file already exists, it will override it.
3. `CreateNew`: Creates a new file and, if the file already exists, it will throw an exception.
4. `Open`: Opens the file.
5. `OpenOrCreate`: Opens the existing file; if it’s not found, then it creates a new one.
6. `Truncate`: opens the existing file and truncates its size to zero bytes.

**FileAccess**: is an enumeration that gives a different method to access a file:

1. `Read`: tells the file has just read access.
2. `ReadWrite`: tells the file has read and write access.
3. `Write`: tells the file has just write access.

**FileShare**: is an enumetation that gives different methods:

1. `Delete`: Allows subsequent deleting of a file.
2. `Inheritable`: Allows the file to handle child process inheritance.
3. `None`: Stops to share the file. File must be closed before access by another process.
4. `Read`: Allows file for reading.
5. `ReadWrite`: Allows file for reading and writing.
6. `Write`: Allows file to write.

Example:

```csharp
// Use of FileStream to write content in a file

FileStream fileStream = new FileStream("File.txt",FileMode.Create,FileAccess.Write
,FileShare.Write);

string content = "This is file content";
byte[] contentInBytes = Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes(content);

fileStream.Write(contentInBytes, 0, contentInBytes.Length);
fileStream.Close();
```

The `Write()` method takes three parameters containing the bytes of contents to write, the starting, and the ending position of bytes to write.

## BinaryReader and BinaryWriter

These classes are used to read and write values as Binary Values:

```csharp
//Write Data Types values as Binary Values in Sample.dat file

FileStream file = File.Create("Sample.dat");
BinaryWriter binaryWriter = new BinaryWriter(file);
binaryWriter.Write("String Value");
binaryWriter.Write('A');
binaryWriter.Write(true);
binaryWriter.Close();

//Read Binary values as respective data type's values from Sample.dat

FileStream fileToOpen = File.Open("Sample.dat", FileMode.Open);
BinaryReader binaryReader = new BinaryReader(fileToOpen);
Console.WriteLine(binaryReader.ReadString());
Console.WriteLine(binaryReader.ReadChar());
Console.WriteLine(binaryReader.ReadBoolean());
```

BinaryReader has methods to read a specific data type’s value. For example, if there is a string value in binary form then you use the `ReadString()` method and so on, but if there is no written value as binary and you want to read it then exception will be thrown.