# Tag Helpers

## Overview

Tag Helpers provide us with means to change and enhance existing HTML tags in our views.

```cs
// with the following model:

public class Movie
{
    public int ID { get; set; }
    public string Title { get; set; }
    public DateTime ReleaseDate { get; set; }
    public string Genre { get; set; }
    public decimal Price { get; set; }
}

// The following Razor markup:

<label asp-for="Movie.Title"></label>

// Generates the following HTML:

<label for="Movie_Title">Title</label>
```

The above `asp-for` attribute extracts the name of the specified model property into the rendered HTML.

⚠️ All built-in Tag Helpers are prefixed with `asp-` prefix.

## Tag Helper Scope

Tag Helpers scope is controlled by a combination of `@addTagHelper`, `@removeTagHelper`, and the `"!"` opt-out character.

### `@addTagHelper`

Adding the `@addTagHelper` directive to the `Views/_ViewImports.cshtml` file makes the Tag Helper available to all view files in the Views directory and subdirectories.

```cs
// Views/_ViewImports.cshtml file

@addTagHelper *, Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.TagHelpers
@addTagHelper *, AuthoringTagHelpers
```

#### Fully qualified name

You can provide the fully qualified name (`FQN`) of the Tag Helper. To add a Tag Helper to a view using an FQN, you first add the FQN (`AuthoringTagHelpers.TagHelpers.EmailTagHelper`), and then the assembly name (`AuthoringTagHelpers`).

```cs
@using AuthoringTagHelpers
@addTagHelper *, Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.TagHelpers
@addTagHelper AuthoringTagHelpers.TagHelpers.EmailTagHelper, AuthoringTagHelpers
```

Most developers prefer to use the "`*`" wildcard syntax. For example, any of the following directives will bring in the EmailTagHelper:

```cs
@addTagHelper AuthoringTagHelpers.TagHelpers.E*, AuthoringTagHelpers
@addTagHelper AuthoringTagHelpers.TagHelpers.Email*, AuthoringTagHelpers
```

#### Controlling Tag Helper scope with the `_ViewImports.cshtml` file

You can add a `_ViewImports.cshtml` to any view folder, and the view engine applies the directives from both that file and the `Views/_ViewImports.cshtml` file.

The `_ViewImports.cshtml` file is additive, any `@addTagHelper` directives you add to the `Views/Home/_ViewImports.cshtml` file (that are not in the default `Views/_ViewImports.cshml` file) would expose those Tag helpers to views only in the Home folder.

### `@removeTagHelper`

The `@removeTagHelper` has the same two parameters as `@addTagHelper`, and it removes a Tag Helper that was previously added. For example, `@removeTagHelper` applied to a specific view removes the specified Tag Helper from the view. Using `@removeTagHelper` in a `Views/Folder/_ViewImports.cshtml` file removes the specified Tag Helper from all of the views in Folder.

### Opting out of individual elements

You can disable a Tag Helper at the element level with the Tag Helper opt-out character ("`!`").

```cs
<!span asp-validation-for="Email" class="text-danger"></!span>
```

You must apply the Tag Helper opt-out character to the opening and closing tag. After you add the opt-out character, the element and Tag Helper attributes are no longer displayed in a distinctive font.