# Overview

SQL is short for Structured Query Language and is a widely used database language, providing means of data manipulation (store, retrieve, update, delete) and database creation.

## Relational Database

Relational database means the data is stored as well as retrieved in the form of relations (tables).

## Table

The foundation of every Relational Database Management System is a database object called table. Every database consists of one or more tables, which store the database’s data/information. Each table has its own unique name and consists of columns and rows.

While table columns describe the data types, the table rows contain the actual data for the columns.

| ID  | NAME     | AGE | ADDRESS   | SALARY   |
| --- | -------- | --- | --------- | -------- |
| 1   | Ramesh   | 32  | Ahmedabad | 2000.00  |
| 2   | Khilan   | 25  | Delhi     | 1500.00  |
| 3   | kaushik  | 23  | Kota      | 2000.00  |
| 4   | Chaitali | 25  | Mumbai    | 6500.00  |
| 5   | Hardik   | 27  | Bhopal    | 8500.00  |
| 6   | Komal    | 22  | MP        | 4500.00  |
| 7   | Muffy    | 24  | Indore    | 10000.00 |

### Fields

Every table is broken up into smaller entities called fields. The fields in the CUSTOMERS table consist of ID, NAME, AGE, ADDRESS and SALARY.

A field is a column in a table that is designed to maintain specific information about every record in the table.

### Record or row

A record is also called as a row of data is each individual entry that exists in a table. For example, there are 7 records in the above CUSTOMERS table. Following is a single row of data or record in the CUSTOMERS table:

| 1   | Ramesh | 32  | Ahmedabad | 2000.00 |
| --- | ------ | --- | --------- | ------- |

A record is a horizontal entity in a table.

### Column

A column is a vertical entity in a table that contains all information associated with a specific field in a table.

For example, a column in the CUSTOMERS table is ADDRESS, which represents location description and would be as shown below −

| ADDRESS   |
-------------
| Ahmedabad |
| Delhi     |
| Kota      |
| Mumbai    |
| Bhopal    |
| MP        |
| Indore    |

### Null value

A NULL value in a table is a value in a field that appears to be blank, which means a field with a NULL value is a field with no value.

It is very important to understand that a NULL value is different than a zero value or a field that contains spaces. A field with a NULL value is the one that has been left blank during a record creation.

### Constraints

Constraints are the rules enforced on data columns on a table. These are used to limit the type of data that can go into a table. This ensures the accuracy and reliability of the data in the database.

Constraints can either be column level or table level. Column level constraints are applied only to one column whereas, table level constraints are applied to the entire table.

Following are some of the most commonly used constraints available in SQL −

- NOT NULL Constraint − Ensures that a column cannot have a NULL value.
- DEFAULT Constraint − Provides a default value for a column when none is specified.
- UNIQUE Constraint − Ensures that all the values in a column are different.
- PRIMARY Key − Uniquely identifies each row/record in a database table.
- FOREIGN Key − Uniquely identifies a row/record in any another database table.
- CHECK Constraint − The CHECK constraint ensures that all values in a column satisfy certain conditions.
- INDEX − Used to create and retrieve data from the database very quickly.