# Advanced Emmet

## Grouping

You can group together sections of an abbreviation using parenthesis `()`. Grouping is useful when creating complex abbreviations.

```html
ul>(li>a)*3
```

This simple example will generate an unordered list and three list items, each of which contain a link.

```html
<ul>
    <li><a href=""></a></li>
    <li><a href=""></a></li>
    <li><a href=""></a></li>
</ul>
```

Lets take a look at a more complex example.

```html
div>header+(article>p*3)+footer>p
```

In this abbreviation we have defined a div element that contains an header, article and footer. The article element also contains three paragraph elements.

This abbreviation would generate the following HTML.

```html
<div>
    <header></header>
    <article>
        <p></p>
        <p></p>
        <p></p>
    </article>
    <footer>
        <p></p>
    </footer>
</div>
```

## Item Numbering: `$`

Emmet also includes a feature that allows you to automatically add numbers to your HTML. This is useful for applications like setting unique classes on list items. Just add a dollar sign `$` to your abbreviation where you want the number to appear and Emmet will take care of the rest.

```html
ul>li.item$*5
```

Here Emmet will add the current index to the classes for each of the list items.

```html
<ul>
    <li class="item1"></li>
    <li class="item2"></li>
    <li class="item3"></li>
    <li class="item4"></li>
    <li class="item5"></li>
</ul>
```

## Reverse Numbering: `@-`

Using `$` alone will cause elements to be numbered in ascending order. There may however be occasions when you wish to reverse this ordering. This can be done by adding the `@-` syntax after the dollar sign `$`.

```html
ul>li.item$@-*5
```

In this example the list item classes will be numbered in descending order.

```html
<ul>
    <li class="item5"></li>
    <li class="item4"></li>
    <li class="item3"></li>
    <li class="item2"></li>
    <li class="item1"></li>
</ul>
```

## Setting Text

You can set the text that should be contained within an element by placing it in curly braces `{}`.

```html
p{Hello Treehouse!}
```

This abbreviation will generate a simple `<p>` element with the text Hello Treehouse!.

```html
<p>Hello Treehouse!</p>
```

You can even use the numbering syntax we looked at earlier within the curly braces.

```html
ul>(li>a{Item $})*5
```

This abbreviation will create five list items containing text that is numbered.

```html
<ul>
    <li><a href="">Item 1</a></li>
    <li><a href="">Item 2</a></li>
    <li><a href="">Item 3</a></li>
    <li><a href="">Item 4</a></li>
    <li><a href="">Item 5</a></li>
</ul>
```

## Using Snippets

Another great feature in Emmet is the ability to quickly generate snippets of code using preset abbreviations.

```html
html:5
```

The example above generates a simple HTML5 compliant page template.

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <title>Document</title>
</head>
<body>

</body>
</html>
```