# Using Emmet with CSS

Emmet also includes a number of abbreviations to help you generate CSS code. These abbreviations are often shorthand versions of the CSS property names.

## Width & Height

Defining width and height with Emmet is very easy. You just have to write the first word of them followed by the size you want to add. By default, if you don’t specify the units, Emmet will generate them with `px` unit. The available unit symbol is percent `%` and em.

## Text

There are some easy to use text property symbol and will be generated with default value. `ta` will generate text-align with left value, `td` will be text-decoration with none value and `tt` will become text-transform with uppercase value.

## Background

To add background, simply use `bg` abbreviation. You can combine it with `bgi` to get background-image, `bgc` for background-color and `bgr` for background-repeat. You can also write `bg+` to get a full list of background property.

## Font Face

The plus sign isn’t just applicable for background. For `@font-face`, you can simply write `@f+` for a complete list of `@font-face` property. If you type `@f` without plus sign, then you’ll get a basic `@font-face` only.

## Miscellaneous

Other great tricks are you can abbreviate writing animation with anim text. If you add a minus - sign, you’ll get animation property with full value. There is also @kf text that will produce full list of @keyframe.

```css
tsh
```

This abbreviation will generate the CSS syntax needed for the text-shadow property.

```css
text-shadow: hoff voff blur #000
```

Adding a hyphen - before the abbreviation will trigger Emmet to generate vendor prefixes for the property.

```css
-tsh
```

If your text editor supports tabstops Emmet will place multiple cursors so that you can fill out values for all of the vendor-prefixed properties simultaneously.

```css
-webkit-text-shadow: hoff voff blur #000
-moz-text-shadow: hoff voff blur #000
-ms-text-shadow: hoff voff blur #000
-o-text-shadow: hoff voff blur #000
text-shadow: hoff voff blur #000
```