# Java Structure

- Think of the acronym PIC (picture): package, import, and class.
- Import declarations are optional.
- Package declaration is optional, si no declaramos a una clase como perteneciente a algún paquete entonces pertenecerán a lo que se llama un Default package (el directorio actual)
- To compile Java code, the file must have the extension _.java_. The name of the file must match the name of the class.
- Multiple classes can be defined in the same file, but only one of them is allowed to be public.
- The public class matches the name of the file.
- A file is also allowed to have neither class be public. As long as there isn’t more than one public class in a file, it is okay.

When we execute _javac_, the result is a file of bytecode by the same name, but with a _.class_ filename extension. Bytecode consists of instructions that the JVM knows how to execute. Notice that we must omit the .class extension to run Zoo.java because the period has a reserved meaning in the JVM.

```Java
> javac Hello.java
> ls
> Hello.java Hello.class
> java Hello
> Hello, Java!
```

- You can have any number of classes in a Java file.
- Each java source file should contain only one **public** class.
- Those Public classes must have the same name as the source file.
- It's perfectly fine to have a file that does not contain a public class.

A Java program begins execution with its _main()_ method.

```java
public class Zoo {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
    }
}
```

In practice, you can write:

```Java
 String[] args
 String args[]
 String... args
 ```

 the compiler accepts any of these.
